# 2022-08-01
## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* @garloff
* @matfechner
* @jnull
* @berendt
* @horazont
* @batistein
* @ajfriesen
* @joshmue
* @mxmxchere
* @itrich
* @curx

## Recurring items

* Who is presenting in weekly community call?
* @janiskemper
* Anything else to add to the agenda?

## Agenda:
* Discussing design proposals and documenting decisions in Blueprints/ADRs/DesignDocs
* Agreement (todo: document that we work this way)
* Current decisions: (see also https://scs.sovereignit.de/nextcloud/apps/files/?dir=/Sovereign%20Cloud%20Stack/KAAS%20(Team2)&fileid=8878)
    * Operator approach w/ gitops as extension https://github.com/syself/scs-docs/blob/syself/meeting-22-07-18/Design-Docs/scs-operator_meeting-22-07-18.md
* -> Decision taken
    * Allowing non-CAPI implementations (compliance tests are black-box / behavior tests)
    * Who runs the management cluster?
* Normally the provider should offer the API endpoint (and GUI) access to users
* User running the mgmt cluster themselves and only cosuming IaaS (and IaaS-specific drivers/providers) is possible (but not the standard case)
* Reference implementation implementes this for SCS compliant IaaS
  -> " Managed Kubernetes"
* A lot of value in having a standardized way to describe the cluster in a provider-independent way "SCS-API"
* Overflow slot Aug 8: @horazont, @joshmue, @batistein
* Imperative APIs needed? (e.g. b/c of Diagnostics)
* Responsibilities:
* Managed K8s: Mgmt cluster runs at provider
* Dataloft: Is provider, would use SCS ref impl to provide Managed k8s
* Could also be done on top of 3rd party IaaS
* ECO (GXFS) probably not interested in doing this
* Multi-cloud-provider managed k8s offering: One mgmt cluster for several providers possible
* Who runs the mgmt cluster best in such a scenario?
* Customer?
* Third party?
* SCS mesh? SCS project?

    * Only metrics and ingress/gateway are mandatory extensions
    * Migration path
* Under discussion
    * Discoverability
    * Exact requirements for CNI and CSI
* Standard parameters for cluster description
* https://github.com/23technologies/scs-cluster-crd
* https://input.osb-alliance.de/p/2022-07-04-scs-container-workshop
* Preparing epics and user stories to get seom work started ...
