# 2022-07-25

## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* @fkr
* @itrich
* @o-otte
* @batistein
* @matfechner
* @jnull
* @janiskemper
* @ajfriesen
* @berendt
* @garloff

## Recurring items

* Who is presenting in weekly community call?
* @janiskemper

* Anything else to add to the agenda?

## Agenda:
* spotlight on the work that has been done by @mxmxchere and @fynluk: https://github.com/23technologies/scs-cluster-crd
* discussion on the operator approach proposal of @batistein and @jkemper: https://github.com/syself/scs-docs/blob/syself/meeting-22-07-18/Design-Docs/scs-operator_meeting-22-07-18.md

## Discussion on the operator approach

@janiskemper wrapped up the operator approach that was presented last week. He pointed out that this operator approach is meant to implement the cluster lifecycle of SCS and that it essentially extends the functionality of Cluster API. Therefore, it has to be used together with Cluster API.

As some service providers don't want to use Cluster API, but still want to get the SCS certification, the SCS standards should be independent of certain technology (e.g. Cluster API).

The compliance to SCS standards will be tested automatically with SCS E2E tests. Because the SCS standards are independent of certain technology, the SCS  team has to implement all E2E tests themselves. No E2E test frameworks, e.g. of Cluster API, can be used.

The conclusion of today's meeting was, therefore, to
have standards that are independent of certain technology
use E2E tests to automatically test for compliance to these standards
have a reference implementation that could be based on the operator approach presented last week. Providers who want to use it, can do it with a small amount of coding. Providers who don't want to use it, implement all the lifecycle logic themselves. If they do it right, they get the SCS certification.
