# 2022-08-08

## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* (@garloff - struggling with chrome)
* @batistein
* @o-otte
* @janiskemper
* @joshmue
* @matfechner
* @ajfriesen
## Recurring items
* Who is presenting in weekly community call?
	* @janiskemper
* Anything else to add to the agenda?

## Agenda:
* kubeadm cert expiration: Issue https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/155
	* See mail from @batistein: rotate-server-certificates needs to be set to true
	(https://github.com/syself/cluster-api-provider-hetzner/blob/main/templates/cluster-templates/bases/hcloud-kcp-ubuntu.yaml#L103)
	-> resolved, suggest upstream
* Review other parameters that may be needed for production
	-> Epic #156 - all kubeadm built clusters should have similar requirements
* Wrap up the "who runs the mgmt part" discussion
  1. (first priority)
	  * Internal implementation can be chosen freely, only behavior, API, ... needs to fulfill standards
	  * obviously using parts or all of SCS KaaS ref implementation makes fulfilling standards easier
	  * OpenAPI spec wanted to document API
	  * Challenge: Exposing kube-api to users requires solving authentication and authorization challenges
	2. (2nd priority) Customer can run the ref. implementation her/himself on cloud providers that don't offer SCS KaaS (or for multi-cloud management)
		* IaaS -> KaaS offering could be done by 3rd party
		* Provider x can implement CAPx, CCM and SCS adapter that makes the SCS ref. implementation work as is, even is IaaS is not SCS-IaaS conformant.
		* No extra work for SCS compliant IaaS providers
	Disucssion:
		* Overhead of running k8s API @ Provider
			* min 3c+1w nodes -- per user (or just the single-node kind bootstrap piece to be moved to real cluster later?)
			* shared / multi-tenant? (with namespaces)? kcp?
				* logs, secrets, .... are a challenge
		* kubectl API users would not mind running their own mgmt cluster???
			* Customers want to focus on creating value, not running/managing k8s clusters ...
	=> 15:05 today overflow slot continuation of discussion

---
END OF MEETING

* One-API discussion
* R3 goals: Convert existing SCS cluster mgmt into new std description
	* https://github.com/23technologies/scs-cluster-crd
	* https://input.osb-alliance.de/p/2022-07-04-scs-container-workshop
	* Write down std proposal: Cluster properties
	* User stories
* Fixing registry.scs.community
	* cluster healthy again
	* Migrate to new cluster, new harbor version
	* Learn how to keep up to date in the future
* Preparing Registry aaS (optional opt-in)
