# 2023-01-09
### Participants (github handles preferred)
* @matfechner
* @lossack
* @maxwolfs
* @o-otte
* @joshmue
* @garloff
* @horazont
* @mxmxchere
* @berendt
* @fkr
* @jnull
* @janiskemper
* @ajfriesen
* @frosty-geek
* @itrich
## Reporting in community call and minutes transfer to repo
  @joshmue
## Agenda 
### Welcome dNation
* Will work on registry (harbor, ...)
  * VP06c
  * Reminder should be sent out (@garloff)
* Plan: Backlog refinement meeting (with @joshmue, @vadim)
### Sprint review / Sprint planning: https://github.com/orgs/SovereignCloudStack/projects/6/views/7
* Supported k8s versions https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/219
  - Needs writing -- anyone wanting to help?
  - @ajfriesen will tackle this and do a first draft
  - @garloff to send the links for existing ADRs to @ajfriesen
* Enable LB Health-Mon by default https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-cluster-api-provider/issues/312
  - Have not found any history why default is not on in OCCM
  - Just do it? Or more research (other CCMs)? Or consider nginx defaults (Local traffic policy) broken?
  - even outside of http it would be nice to have LB (@horazont) - speaks out in favor of having health checks
  - this is not a nginx-specific issue - but more about traffic policy local & octavia
  - -> https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/Docs/pull/169
  - @jnull asks about wether we actually have performance metrics / benchmarks on our LB decision
    - nope, we don't, it was a architectural decision (@garloff)
  - @jnull furthermore raised certain issues upon restarts
  - DSR raised again by @horazont (but nothing we can add here / now)
  - @frosty-geek suggest to have X-Forwarded-For set as a requirement for the Spec for http LBs
  - =>Decision is that the LB Health-Mon will be enabled by default
    * the ADR will actively de-scope client IP preservation for the first version
- Client-IP discussion: How to get it?
  * L4 Loadbalancer may obfuscate it (TODO: Use proxy protocol to avoid this?)
  * traffic-policy cluster may obfuscate it (but we don't use it)
  * nginx may not foward it (X-Forwarded for)
    - Investigate use of octavia-ingress? (octavia as L7)
  * => Future work (v2 of scope)
* Discussion topic (big): Standard storage class (https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/213) and additional standardized storage classes (https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/214):
  - Standard: RWO, non-local, survives single-node crash but not AZ going down, (reasonably cheap)
  - Need to define additional storage class properties (e.g. "IOPS-500" (IOPS>=500; Bandwidth>=30MB/s)) and define one of them to be the default?
  - Let's refrain from defining underlying tech (ceph, SSD, ....) - but use our knowledge of what's possible to define standards of course
  - Standard storage classes are the required ones, further ones optional 
  - @fkr raises the idea of relative instead of absolute values (eg. "low latency" instead of defining this in absolue numbers)
  - @frosty-geek suggests to bring this to the lean coffee
  - @ajfriesen asks wether it makes sense that each of the participating CSPs provides a link to their docs on where the storage classes are defined


### Topics for next time?
#### Proceeding with standardization (https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/181)
* What's next?
  - ADR for anti-affinity? (#226)
  - Metrics? (#224)
* Restarting the cluster-values.yaml work when we have contractor aboard ...
