# 2023-06-12
## Participants (github handles preferred)
* @o-otte
* @matfechner
* @ppkuschy
* @batistein
* @jschoone
* @garloff
* @alexander-diab
* @berendt
* @saschascherrer
* @chess-knight
* @fkr
* @mbuechse
* @joshmue
* @maxwolfs
* @ajfriesen
* @cah_hbaum
* @mxmxchere
* @guettli
* @janiskemper
* @master-caster

## Community call and minutes transfer

* @jschoone

## Agenda
### Registry topics
* Research on pull rate limits [k8s-capi/#414](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-cluster-api-provider/issues/414), [k8s-harbor/#38](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-harbor/issues/38)
    * harbor does not have support for this
    * need to do it on the ingress side
* Blog post
* Successful deployment of scs harbor also in dNation, monitoring via grafana dashboard
* Integrating it (as option) into k8s-capi deployment: [k8s-capi/#139](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-cluster-api-provider/issues/139) -> WIP

### Replace k8s.gcr.io with registry.k8s.io [k8s-capi/#412](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-cluster-api-provider/issues/412)
* PR created [k8s-capi/#422](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-cluster-api-provider/pull/422)
* Needs validation with other k8s minor versions

### State of cluster stacks
* Progress has been made
* Needs to be made public for discussion & review!
* Refinement recommended

### Networking / CNI - [issues/#211](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/211)
* Cilium research, lightning talk offered
* Requirements: Do we need anything beyond standardized network policies?
  https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/container/20230605.md?plain=1#L57
    - Host firewalls not standardized in NetPols (and unlilkely to change)
        - Not crucial for C&H (due to their VPN setup)
    - Firewall needed for security reasons
        - Maybe just require the *provider* to configure this for the user (so we hide CNI differences)?
            - Details then not exposed, so we don't need to pin down CNI
    - Others from @joshmue:
        - Powerful (Cilium) convenience features like toFQDN policies
* Goals for Standardization
    - SCS prefers NOT to mandate a specific CNI
    - k8s Network policies needed of course
    - Security requirements (e.g. etcd port not publicly accessible), ... in addition, protection mechanism may be provider-specific (and use the CNI's or IaaS' features for this)
        - Reference implementation of course takes care of it (assuming a specfic Ref.Impl. CNI - we are opinionated there)
* AI @guettli: Write ADR on the Networking Standardization approach
* Trouble: CNI specific features ARE visible to the user, so the user may experience incompatibilities when moving between cloud providers
    * Generic challenge: We do not prohibit extensions (and don't want to in order not to kill innovation -- even in ref.impl., possibly we can do warnings there)
    * Best option is to provide warnings as soon as someone uses non-standardized features
        * Platform may occasionally do it
        * General approach would be a separate tool that analyses a deployment / helm chart and issues warnings when it finds non-standard features
* Trouble: We might want to standardize features that need specific CNI features in the future?
    * Dependencies might not be obvious enough
    * Can not be fully solved -- improve documentation visibility and tooling is the best we can do
* Mandate to have an option to Bring your own CNI?
    * Technically possible?
        * Security groups?
        * Raw CNI-less clusters may not come up?
        * Things that depend on a CNI being there can not be installed / managed
        * Support / maintenance challenge
    * Can not be a supported offering ... what is the point then? 
* Switching is hard
    * Offering many options is also expensive

