# 2023-03-27

## Participants (github handles preferred)
* @o-otte
* @master-caster
* @ppkuschy
* @batistein
* @maxwolfs
* @fynluk
* @mxmxchere
* @matfechner
* @chess-knight
* @matofeder
* @alexander-diab
* @joshmue
* @fkr
* @guettli
* @janiskemper
* @ajfriesen
* @mpilka
* @garloff
* @horazont

## Reporting in Community call and Minutes transfer

## Technical work to be done
* [Issues in k8s-cluster-api-provider](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-cluster-api-provider/issues)
* See [task board](https://github.com/orgs/SovereignCloudStack/projects/6/views/7)
* Standards

#### Registry
* [standards/#212](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/212): ADR - Requirements for container registry
    * merged, mail TBW by @garloff (req for stabilization)
* [k8s-harbor/#23](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-harbor/issues/23): Investigation of Harbor deployment possibilities
    * in progress 

# SCS Team Container R4 Retro

Moderation: @fkr

- Participants: 22
- Note authors are hidden
- [Link to board](https://scrumlr.io/board/73bc3439-21c5-45af-aaf4-5bb98b692a75)

## What went well (14 Notes)

- Hackathons!
- I like how we have improved k8s-capi-provider repo in R4
    - Distributing the work to improve and update the reference implementation (k8s-cluster-api-provider)
- growing the community
- Release on time
- More interest in SCS
- Transparency via github issues/PRs
- Clear division of responsibilities (who is doing what and when it should be delivered)
- Good and open communication, fast response
- Prioritization of issues
- Marketing announcements
- We have some more or less complex ADRs ready now
- New PO
- Made progress on standardisation.

## What we'll change (7 Notes)

- Sometimes whole/bigger picture is not clear or hard to comprehend -> Have overall goals for a release
- More/earlier feedback/involvement from CSP's regarding important features (e. g. container registry)
- Standardization was much slower than implementation. We need to embrace standardization more! (Maybe doing a standards proposal with PoC/MVP code helps to spur discussions?) 
- More development on the container layer
- Team Name? Team Container -> Team Clusters aaS?
- github does not make things interactive enough. Need to get a way to get attention (rather than polling github all day long.)
- centralizing the repos - as right now it's not simple to track issues

## Becoming faster - how? (1 Notes)

- Building a dedicated development team working on mid-term goals and not only on the next release. This way we could re-architect some of the lifecycle management systems

## Binding Agreements (4 Notes)

- Lightning talk on standardization flow / framework
- e2e tests for k8s clkuster api are to be looked at in Team KaaS
- SCS project team facilitates a meeting to further discuss team structure
- Less reviewers per issue / PR

## Discussed (8 Notes)

- Not adding so many people as a reviewer - as this could lead to someone else will have a look...
- Not only focusing on OpenStack - as this will create some vendor-lockin
    - A lot of OpenStack specific discussions. CSPs without that infra can not participate. Maybe it is possible to move those?
- Add e2e tests to the k8s-cluster-api-provider repo - lack of automated e2e tests in k8s-cluster-api-provider repo.  slows down the development/review process 
    - We should include e2e test to speed up development
- Getting used to standardization flow and frameworks (works also kind-of passively)
- More meetings in small groups to work on subtopics. (However ensure to report back into complete team!)
- Discussion are sometimes too technical and in depth for a "short" meeting with a lot of other topics -> more break outs

