# 2023-06-19
## Participants (github handles preferred)
- @matfechner
- @o-otte
- @master-caster
- @batistein
- @jnull
- @maxwolfs
- @mxmxchere
- @garloff
- @matofeder
- @tonifinger
- @jschoone
- @cwrau
- @chess-knight
- @mbuechse
- @bitkeks
- @guettli
- @alexander-diab
- @berendt
- @martindahlswe
- @janiskemper

## Community call and minutes transfer

- @matofeder

## Agenda
Sprint Edmonton mid-review

### Welcome @cwrau!
* Chris Rau - came to SCS via aov @NilsAr98 and @jschoone
* Working for teuto.net -- hosted k8s offering on OpenStack (also using capi+capo via an Operator-based approach to automate OS projects/user creation)
    * Looking for synergies
* AI @garloff: Onboard on nextcloud/mailing lists

### Dedicated chat room
* A communication channel for the container team is needed: k8s Slack, Matrix, ... preferences? (@guettli)
    * probably doesn't need to be only one
    * Rest of SCS community is on Matrix
        * Also better fits our sovereignty approach
    * CNCF community prefers slack
    * Have a look on Matrix Appservice Slack (thanks to @matofeder)
* Proposal: Create a SCS container/k8s channel in Matrix and use it as our main communication means, but also open an SCS-k8s channel on k8s-slack to connect to the CNCF world (maybe use as on-ramp for us?)

## Reference Implementation
- Support diskless flavors [#424](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-cluster-api-provider/pull/424)
    - v3 flavors have mainly diskless flavors as mandatory (only SSD flavors are mandatory), want to have KaaS Ref.Impl. work on all SCS-compatible IaaS out-of-the-box.
    - Go for it - do some more testing (beyond the developer) before merging.
- Note on all following items:
    - These are easy, regular changes, real effort is to not miss any place (in the code and the documentation) and -- more relevant -- testing that it all works (which of course it does in 99% of the cases, which is not good enough)
        - [renovate bot](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate) could create the PRs
        - Need to really hook up our test capabilities (`make sonobuoy` and friends) into a CI system!
        - Image build (@osism) for latest k8s version is already automated
            - Could hook up CI tests there (by creating a cluster with capi and run CNCF tests with sonobuoy)
            - Would need to move from cyrus-CI to zuul
            - Tested images then could automatically (renovate job) create k8s-cluster-api-provider PR
            - Track this in issue TBD (AI @jschoone)
- Update to latest k8s minor versions and occm minor versions [#428](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-cluster-api-provider/pull/428)
    - We need to do this in every sprint if we want to comply to [SCS-0210-v1](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/blob/main/Standards/scs-0210-v1-k8s-new-version-policy.md), who is responsible? (syself? dNation? SCS team?)
- Minor version update capi and capo [#427](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-cluster-api-provider/pull/427)
- Calico v3.25.0 -> 3.25.1 [#429](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-cluster-api-provider/pull/429)
- Cilium v1.13.0 -> v1.13.3 [#430](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-cluster-api-provider/pull/430)
    - Note: v1.13.4 seems to break IPsec, go to v1.13.5 as soon as it's available (assuming it fixes IPsec again)
    - cilium binary needs to be 0.13.2 (there is no .3 nor .4), thanks @chess-knight
- Change default CNI from Calico to Cilium [#431](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-cluster-api-provider/pull/431)
    - After #430?
    - We had decided to do this in our ref.impl., no?
        - Yes
    - Testing and reviews welcome!
- Further minor version upgrades: kind, flux2, cert-mgr? Who?
    - dNation and SCS team will track this
    - Medium-term: renovate plus CI
- Backport of *select* bug fixes / patch/minor(!) version upgrades to [`maintained/v5.x`](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-cluster-api-provider/tree/maintained/v5.x) and (even more selectively) [`maintained/v5.0.x`](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-cluster-api-provider/tree/maintained/v5.0.x) branches. Who?
    * Short-term: @garloff and dNation
    * Medium-term: Cluster-Stacks -> syself

## Standards

### Networking/CNI
- Start ADR this week
- Lightning Talk about Cilium research next week (in the Container Team meeting on 2023-06-26, @janiskemper)

### LoadBalancer
- [LB Draft](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/169)
    - Needs review so this can be concluded
    - @garloff to bring @jschoone up to speed this week

### Central API Minihackathon @ Gonicus (Jul 18)
- https://input.scs.community/2023-scs-api-minihackathon?view#Remote
    - If you want to participate, enter your name to the pad
    - Agenda will follow this/next week
    - Remote participation possible
