# 2024-04-18

## :family: Participants (github handles preferred)

- @cah-hbaum
- @artificial-intelligence
- @mxmxchere 
- @chess-knight
- @tonifingerges
- @paulphys
- @jschoone
- @martinmo
- @michal-gubricky
- @o-otte
- @pixelphantomx
- @garloff
- @janiskemper

## :telephone: Community call and minutes transfer

* Who is reporting in the community call? 404 - No volunteer found
* Responsible for the minutes (writing and transfer to github): @mxmxchere

## :notebook: Agenda

### :information_source: Info

- @jschoone won't be available next week

### Hackathon summary (@jschoone, 5min)
- Clusterstack basics intro by @jschoone & how to build a new clusterstack from scratch (helmchart for clusterclass, clusteraddons, create release assets witch csctl) -> good outcome, knowledge about clusterstacks was spreaded

### Make use of the `cluster.spec.topology.version` field (@b1, 5min)
Currently working for openstack-alpha-1-29.
If you have multiple ubuntu-capi images in your node-images.yaml, you can now upgrade patchversions via your cluster resource.
Open questions:
* How to deal with new patch-releases (that are released after the cluster-stack is released)
    - Two basic approaches: A) CSP has to provide the image, B) Workflow with CSPO and csctl
    - Approach B) How to deliver new patch images after a release of a cluster stack?
        - A Cluster-Stack has exactly one node image
            - Need new CS version for new patch images (~ every 4 weeks)
                - CS-NAME-1-29-v1 (has node images 1.29.n), -v2 has .n (and is released for fixing issues) or .n+1 ...
                - Trouble: Need to change both the version of cluster stack and `cluster.spec.topology.version` to update to a new patch version
                - Solution: webhook can fill in a default (and if user specifies something on her own, webhook can validate it)

###  Consolidate cluster-stacks folder structure #56 (@b1, πmin)
How many cluster-stacks do we want to have in the end?
What should be the name of the "main" cluster stack?
https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/cluster-stacks/issues/56

Should we swap provider and cluster-stack-name in the folder hierarchy?


### [Standardization] KaaS Gitops/CI tooling (@cah-hbaum/@tonifinger 5min)

- reference: issue [issues/420](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/420)
- Continuous Integration is mentioned in the title together with GitOps. However, Flux and Argo CD are only tools for Continuous Deployment. 
- Is the aim of this ticket to also look for a combination of tools for both: CI and CD?
    - Standardization a good approach here? Use of tools may be left to organizations here. They can decide best what they need.
    - Guidelines and Examples as an alternative to a standard
    - Convenience-switches for Argo/Flux in the cluster-settings to automatically deploy CD-Tools

GitOps to manage your clusters (not your applications in your cluster):
    - that is possible too
    - Could be made mandatory to be scs-certified kaas-Solution
    - Endusers might not care about that feature
    - If this enables the power for the user to take cluster-definition vom Provider A to Provider B, they might like that feature

### [Standardization] KaaS Logging/Monitoring/Tracing (@cah-hbaum/@tonifinger 10min)

- reference: issue [issues/418](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/418)
- The issue appears to be redundant to the content of standard [scs-0403-v1-csp-kaas-observability-stack](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/blob/main/Standards/scs-0403-v1-csp-kaas-observability-stack.md)
    - redundant Issue leads to redundant work for Ops and Standards Teams?
    - Generic questions can be answered with the Ops people and k8s specifics should be tackled here

### Harbor upgrade (@chess-knight ~3min)
- KaaSv1 R6
- v2.10.2
- Big images successfully pushed [k8s-harbor#62](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-harbor/issues/62)
    - pushing large images was an issue before

### Update on CSPO (@michal-gubricky ~3min)
- Done: Support specifying CA certificate or adding `verify: false` to clouds.yaml - [cluster-stack-provider-openstack#148](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/cluster-stack-provider-openstack/pull/148) 
    - very useful, especially for test setups
