# 2025-05-30
## :family: Participants (GitHub handles preferred)
- @garloff
- @matofeder

## :telephone: Minutes taking&transfer
- @matofeder

## :notebook: Agenda
### Cluster Stacks
#### Add new Cluster Stacks *series* (@jschoone)
- Background, see [comment](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/cluster-stacks/pull/225#discussion_r2113574223)
- Random name, will use "quokka" here
	- Discussion (@matofeder, @garloff): Use `scs2` to message that this is *the* officially vetted CS series
- New features lead to breaking changes and need disproportionate workarounds
  - Switch from CSPO to ORC
  - `use-clouds` in cloud-provider-openstack components
- Follows the idea of Cluster Stacks to have different Cluster Stacks with different features
- Deprecate SCS Cluster Stacks and only provide it until Kubernetes 1.32 EOL (since it's already there)
- Quokka start with Kubernetes 1.31 since 1.30 is almost EOL
- Even if the ORC image is already part of the SCS Cluster Stack, older versions of that still require CSPO, means CSPO and ORC must both be installed
- Documentation for switching from SCS to Quokka only needs
  - Before updating Cluster to use quokka ClusterClass
    - make sure ORC is installed (should be always the case since CAPO 0.12)
    - provide clouds-yaml in ClusterResourceSet, see [this example](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/cluster-stacks/blob/15af899bec1af0444f27c97ff10761a03bf37e5d/providers/openstack/scs/README.md?plain=1#L55-L59)
    - install quokka Cluster Stacks and wait for the ClusterClass
  - After changing (all) Clusters to quokka ClusterClass
    - remove SCS Cluster Stacks
      - make sure all related cc,csk,cskr,osnir are deleted
    - uninstall CSPO
- Discussion (@matofeder, @garloff): Except for the suggested name, this is a good proposal
	- Keep the community together centered around an "official" cluster stack series (our product), that has scs in its name.

#### Cluster stacks release management (@matofeder)
* Use [scs-training-kaas-scripts](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/scs-training-kaas-scripts) in Documentation (Quick-Start)?
	* Discussion: Let's keep the README explaining all the needed steps and point from there to the scripts that do it for the user.
		* Improving credential handling (like having restricted AppCreds per cluster to be rotated regularly) would then be done on both
			* An external SecretManager solution would build on this
		* Avoid too many features in scripts, as this is meant to simplify the Quick Start Guide from the README, not to expose all features.
* Handle listing of available versions? [issue #224](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/cluster-stacks/issues/224)
* Should have (at least) on CS release per K8s patch version, no?
    * Yes
        * Should be automated (renovate, just)
    * Release on github? On OCI?
        * github has the downside of requiring API-keys (to avoid rate-limits)
            * Discussion whether that is really as bad
            * Difference b/w releases and packages?
        * Two options
            * Only use OCI and delete (outdated!) releases from github
            * Or push at least all stable releases to github
        * Needs more investigation, github preferred for official versions IF we can avoid the rate-limit issue
    * Responsible?
* [CSI helmchart fix](https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/pull/2892) merged upstream
* Use `clouds.yaml` instead of `cloud.conf` [PR #225](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/cluster-stacks/issues/225)
* Default worker node volume [Issue #223](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/cluster-stacks/issues/223)
