## 2022-10-06


### Participants (preferrably github handle)
* @matfechner
* @alexander-diab

https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/Docs

Talk about a Place inside the repository where released Documentations
hosted
* We propose a separate standard folder in the docs repository, where standards are being described and commited. These Standards are mainly be defined and described in the technical teams und filed here.
* The single standards should have a status tag like valid, draft, abanoned, etc.
* We conclude that standards are defined in the technical teams, the processing of standards, how they are filed, formatted and published should be in responsibility of another entity --> That may be this SIG, it may require a new format. 
* The Adoption issue and the visibility of adoption is an ongoing topic, where no immediate conclusion has been drawn. However, as the design of certification will progress this should be matched and consolidated alongside with the progress of the process of designing and maintaining standards. 



(2022-09-29 was skipped)

Summary in team call and github minutes:
    
### Agenda today
* Note on CaaS: Standardization will be the centerpiece of work for the next cycle
  - Discussion on applicable standards will happen in the Container team
  - => Generic approach? Leave communication, standardization process, rules, certification  program here.
* Progress on adopting image metadata standard
- Do we require all public images to comply?
- Are we on track to have metadata added by 2022-10-31?
* Implementing last week's decisions:
    - Release Policies: Activate new standards along with new ref impl
    - Release Policies: Conformance test requirements
    - General standardization process description (align with ADR discussion Team Ops/IAM)
* Creating visibility:
    - Adopting SCS standards
    - Adopting SCS ref. impl. modules
    - Adopting SCS Open Operations