## 2022-08-04

### Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* @garloff
* @matfechner
* @itrich

### Recurring items
* Who is presenting in weekly community call?
  * @garloff

### Deep dive IaaS standards
* Reminder: SCS IaaS = Optional standard:
    Not every SCS provider will offer SCS compliance IaaS, but there is a standards for IaaS that providers can fulfill and thus also ensure interop at IaaS layer. (We expect more interest and relevance for the KaaS layer. We will also always need Interop at IAM layer to allow for deferation.)
    Nevertheless, as we build our ref implementation from the ground up, we are furthest advanced in IaaS, thus we look at this today.
* Existing IaaS standards for SCS
  * OpenStack powered https://www.openstack.org/brand/openstack-powered/
     * Need to pass the guideline tempest tests (using refstack)
     * Need to have designated code sections unchanged
     * Discussion: Should we require OpenStack powered Compute? Platform (includes storage)?
       -> Agreement that we should require this
       -> Only Compute, as Swift is optional from SCS perspective
   * SCS Image metadata spec (plus naming proposal)
        https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/Docs/blob/main/Design-Docs/Image-Properties-Spec.md
        * Discussion: Good?
        -> Looks good
        -> PR with typos from Mathias needs to be redone
        -> Standard list of images is *recommended* (but not a mandatory piece of the standard)
   * SCS Flavor naming (plus standard flavor list)
      https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/Docs/blob/main/Design-Docs/flavor-naming.md
     * Discussion:
       * Allows to use generic short names ("SCS-2V:8:20") as well as very fine-grained distinction ("SCS-2T:8:20p-i3h" indicating the use of dedicated hyperthreads, a 20GiB local NVMe disk and a intel IceLake CPU with >2.75GHz all-core frequency).
       * Smaller providers don't want to have such finegrained details encoded in the names (as it results in many many flavors as they still want to expose the shorter generic names)
       * Only using the short generic names results in a lack of transparency/discoverability though ...
         * Extend extra_specs?
       * 28 mandatory flavors: We should have test case(s) for this!
       * Do we need the diskless flavors (14/28 in the mandatory standard flavor list)?
         -> Could move the diskless flavors to recommended instead (AI Discuss in IaaS Team)
       * TODO: Amend mandatory flavors with recommended (AI Kurt to make proposal, discuss with Ralf and others)
* More standards needed?
  * Users have ability to get domain? Should be default!?
    * Role/permissions that allow user management, role management (within domain), federation\
      * Standard roles?
        * OpenStack inspired standards: Read-Only, Audit, Project User, Domain Admin -- global and/or per service /service group
  * Meaning of AZs?
    * Significantly higher availability for multi-AZ deployments by independent infrastructure (switches, fire protection zone, power delivery, cooling, internet connection, ...)
    -> Goal accepted
    -> Would accept different approaches to multi-AZ HA, needs to be made transparent in a standard way, built atop of DC Tier-X classification -- expose redundancy and sharing
    * What is shared between AZs?
      [ ] Block Storage -> allow sharing, but not recommended
      [x] OpenStack Networks -> mandatory
      [x] Images (public and private)
         - Can be a challenge with per-AZ ceph clusters (e.g. solve by replicating objects PLUS object IDs)
      [x] Object Storage name space
      ...
    -> Recommend multi-AZ setups (best is 3 or more)
  * What is shared between multiple regions from one cloud?
    [X] IAM
    [ ] Public Images
    If yes,  [ ] With same UUID? (Alternative: Just same name.)
    [ ] Private images replicated?
---
   * External networks (provider / floating), network names, SNAT, other provider networks, DHCP
   * Local DNS, NTP services (-> DHCP, Self-descriptions?)
   * SMTP: Gateway, port blocking (Self-descriptions)
   * Meta/User-Data service (for cloud-init) need to work!
   * Quota requirements?
   * Storage classes?
   * Migration policies
   * VMs Will be live migrated (default), with opt-out for cold migration or NO migration (orchestrator will recreate VMs as needed)
   * VMs that can not be live migrated (e.g. with pass through hardware access)
   * how to make this transparent (flavor metadata?)

