## 2023-03-30

### Participants (github handles preferred)
* @itrich
* @garloff
* @alexander-diab
* @anja.strunk
* @maxwolfs

### Reporting in community call (and minutes transfer)

### Agenda

#### Flavor compliance check
* gx-scs, pco, wavestack fail compliance (26 missing mandatory v2 flavors), manually retested by Eduard to make it pass
* SCS v2 IaaS Compliance: Accept v1 AND v2 flavors in parallel for R4 lifetime?
    * PR [standards/#260](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/260): Allow v1 flavors to fulfill v2 mandatory list `--accept-old-mand`
* SCS v3 iaas would then require all v2 mandatory flavors? (dropping flag)
* SCS v4 iaas would disallow v1 flavors? (`--v2plus`)

Discussion:
* the `obsoleted_at` in the standards,yaml determines the lifetime of the official certificate. The certificate expires at this date.
* The `obsoleted_at`  date is determined in the according forum (e.g. the product board)
* We raised, whether we want to display/report on our pages, whether a CSP is certified (s.a.) or which version it is compliant with, even if this version has expired. 

Decision:
* v2 iaas compliance requires v2 flavors
* v1 iaas compliance still valid (till 2023-10-31)
* Test both(all) valid standards at any given time and show both results on web page
* PR#260 may still be useful in modified form

#### Status / Diskussion : issuing document
See https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/239
* Alex to review the current state of the document and comment and approve. 
* Alex to adjust the doc according to how standards are documented and filed. 

#### Discussion docs pages ( https://docs.scs.community/standards )  : Structure / Content
* Create visibility for the currently two layers
* Get inspiration from https://docs.gaia-x.eu/framework/
    * Columns with IaaS, KaaS,
    * Standards as boxes within those columns
    * Info popup with standards text, tests (compliant clouds)
* Standards/Certification landing page needed
    * explaining why this matters
    * giving an overview


#### Roadmap Standardization
Alasca / OSBA M&P presentation:
https://scs.sovereignit.de/nextcloud/apps/files/?dir=/Sovereign%20Cloud%20Stack/Presentations/OSBA_Members%26Products-20230309&openfile=166191


