## 2023-06-15
### Participants (github handles preferred)
- @maxwolfs
- @alexander-diab
- @mbuechse
- @matfechner
- @frosty-geek


### Reporting in community call and minutes transfer
- @alexander-diab


### Agenda

#### Track standardization progress
- @mbuechse mentioned discrepancy (see SIG meeting on 01062023 below) between hedgedoc table and initial epic. We should discuss how to harmonize the two sources for standard definitions
    - => Should track this as an Epic in github, build superset from existing epic and tables from ALASCA slides

#### Improve/extend documentation regarding standards and certification

Suggestions by @mbuechse that arose while working on [issue #343](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/343)

- Drop the following sentence from [scs-0001-v1-sovereign-cloud-standards](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/blob/main/Standards/scs-0001-v1-sovereign-cloud-standards.md), because the "SCS standard" as a notion has been superseded by the notion of certification levels:
    
    > Once the next SCS release happens, the document is officially part of the SCS standard.

- Extend [scs-0003-v1-sovereign-cloud-standards-yaml](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/blob/main/Standards/scs-0003-v1-sovereign-cloud-standards-yaml.md) as outlined in [this comment in #343](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/343#issuecomment-1582009608)
- Maybe have a look at https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/sig-standardization/scs-certification-issuing.md / https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/239 again

Discussion on Standards/Cert Documentation

- Collection on questions, which are asked about standards/cert topics (refer to sig docs minutes from 12/06/2023)
- Totally uncovered at large is the onboarding process for a to be certified environment
- Also how the process of continuous certification. Is the a hol or a bring Schuld. How much effort is involved here. 

- Two Standards may exist at the same time. That may have the consequence that an environment is compliant, but fails with a certain version --> How is this (positively) communicated?
- Traffic Signs cause a certain impression. A red light (on a certain version) may be misinterpreted as "not compliant" or "something is wrong" anyway.

- We should answer prominently two questions: 
    * 1. How can a new CSP onboard to be SCS certified: They can download the compliance script (is there a how-to on the script usage?), let it run, then contact us and we implement the automatic compliance check
    * 2. What is the admin process to be remain certified?
        * Not a problem if we have nightly github actions active for this CSP 

We agree, that the compliance check table must have a simple straight messaging (compliant or not). What this means must be described in the same place. 

Discussion on whether it is sensible to allow to standard versions at the same time or only allow a grace period similar to the release process (~6 weeks)
