## 2023-09-21

### Participants (github handles preferred)

- @maxwolfs
- @fdobrovolny
- @markus-hentsch
- @anjastrunk
- @matfechner
- @janiskemper

### Agenda

#### Apart of the current mvp, what will be cert. process for higher level, more complex cert. subjects?

- When different subjects are certified, how is the cert. issued?
    - ?
- In What frequency is it checked?
    - Automated checks: Nightly
    - Manual checks: Needs discussion. Thoughts
        - 4 months (like k8s recency)
        - 3 months (like LE certs)
        - Badge will contain validity in text and in digital signature
- Currently, do we really want to de-validate the cert. when the compliance check tool fails?
    - a one time fail could be temporary, can not lead to a cert invalidation
    - longer-term fails:
        - please fix notification (after 2nd fail)
        - make this transparent to customer
            - https://docs.scs.community/standards
        - "SLA" type measurement: 99.x% of time compliance :-)
    - Proposal
        - cert agreement includes our right to measure and publish the current and historic results on a public page 
        - official invalidation would then only need to happen after a longer period 
            - CRL, generated automatically after a certain threshold has been exceeded (automated warnings generated before this happens)
    - Issue to be created and ADR to be written (AI: @mbuechse/@anjastrunk/@cah-baum)
        - Enhances or relates to scs-0003

#### Roadmap of next standards to be worked on ('till December, R6)

- Epic IaaS standards [#285](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/issues/285)
- Epic KaaS standards [#181](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/181)

- Please think about which ones can be done by Dec
- Start working on them
- Priorization in next SIG / team meets

#### documentation of standard and certs on docs-page

- first draft pull request: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/docs/pull/76
    - Please review!

#### Terminology "certificate subject" in SCS vs. X509 meaning

- rediscussion needed, going back to "certificate type"?
- ideas: certificate topic, certificate scope
- github issue to discuss this (AI @anjastrunk)
