## 2023-06-29

### Participants (github handles preferred)
- @alexander-diab
- @mbuechse
- @matfechner
- @josephineSei
- @markus-hentsch
- @fkr
- @anjastrunk


### Reporting in community call and minutes transfer

- @alexander-diab

### Agenda
- visualization of vendor compliance
    - see <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards#scs-compatible-clouds>
    - Top level (compliant/layer yes/no) and second level table (which layer/version compliance check passed)
- visualization of certification sets: timeline
    - We have decided to modify the colors (especially avoid red) on Iaas and KaaS layer to SCS id colors
- visualization of certification sets: table
    - This table is still in progress. We discussed, how continuation of standards version should be labeled and what icon to use for "deprecated" (waste bin?)
- docs page: table of contents
    - A first draft of an update for the standard section of the docs page was presented by Max
- design a badge for marketing
    - idea: establish a registry or use some kind of watermark to ensure that validity can be tested
- flavor naming / needs of CSPs (use cases)
    - @mbuechse brought up, that the flavor naming solution still does not serve all stakeholder needs and this should be coordinated and elaborated.
    - Maybe collect use cases or even business cases from the CSPs
    - Bring the process forward with flavor discoverability, but also facilitate using SCS flavor names
- progress regarding glossary / process description
    - No progress
- make a dedicated yaml file for each layer?
    - `scs-compatible-iaas.yaml` and `scs-compatible-caas.yaml`
    - reasoning:
        - (a) they will be issued/certified independently of each other (CSP can have one without the other), and
        - (b) _SCS-open CaaS_ **requires** _SCS-compatible CaaS_, **but not** _SCS-compatible IaaS_!
    - still need a name for such a yaml; proposals so far: _certification set_, _certification package_
    - maybe even make one file per version: `scs-compatible-iaas-v1.yaml` etc.
    - or even establish more structure using directories:
        - `scs-compatible/iaas/v1.yaml`
        - `scs-compatible/iaas/v2.yaml`
        - `scs-compatible/iaas/v3.yaml`
        - `scs-compatible/caas/v1.yaml`
        - `scs-open/iaas/v1.yaml`
        - `scs-open/caas/v2.yaml`
    - Who can tell whether the layer concept even applies to scs-open or scs-sovereign?
    - Maybe scs-0003 shouldn't standardize levels we don't even have yet!
- AD: We discussed openly different ways to structure the yaml files amd concluded that we postpone the discussion to a near future. 
