## 2024-08-08

### Participants (github handles preferred)

- @gtema
- @artificial-intelligence
- @markus-hentsch
- @anja-strunk
- @martinmo
- @cah-patrickthiem
- @bitkeks

### Housekeeping

#### Announcement

- @mbuechse scheduled an extraordinary SIG meeting on 2024-08-15

#### Designate people to transfer minutes and report in community call

- minutes transfer: @mbuechse is volunteering, even though he can't attend himself
- community call: @gtema

#### Check AIs from last time

- _AI @mbuechse and @fdobrovolny: move [issues/#332](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/332) forward_
    - open
- _AI @mbuechse: check whether we need to use an overflow slot_
    - done (though I opted against the designated overflow slot because it's later in the day and I often can't make it)
- _AI @fkr: query CSPs to check our hypotheses above, in order to prepare a break-out session_
    - open
- _AI @garloff: send e-mail to list announcing that the merge will happen tomorrow (Friday)_
    - done (merge included)
    - CNDS (of Artcodix) quickly turned green afterwards, so yay!
    - others still have to follow suit

### Agenda

#### Security standards

Sponsor: @bitkeks, 5 minutes

- Is there an interest in drafting (more) security-related standards? -> In general, yes
- We currently have the following security-related projects/work packages in SCS:
    - security assessments for IaaS and KaaS
    - Best practices for OpenStack and Kubernetes (see for example ["K8s cluster hardening"](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/issues/475))
    - security scanner pipeline for IaaS and KaaS (implementation open, but requirement for continuous scanning written in standard)
    - continuous scanning of KaaS clusters (Trivy)
    - Storing security reports in hosted instance (DefectDojo)
    - Security advisory program (blog posts, assessments, reports)
    - Road map: SBOMs in build pipeline
        - Example: CSP is required to have and analyse SBOMs for OSISM container images
        - Example 2: YAOOK has other container images
- Enabling end-customers to fetch vulnerability reports and SBOMs of the current cloud platform 
    - Scope: only for public APIs? Or for all software artifacts on the platform?
    - Kubernetes: version policy

#### Security pentesting as standard?

Sponsor: @bitkeks, 10 mins

- Now that the implementation of the security pipeline is nearly completed, should we aim to put a standard into SCS that aims to pick the tools up? -> Yep
    - _AI @bitkeks_
- Target group of mandatory actions: CSPs
- Benefit: customers know that some security aspects are automatically covered

#### Specifying a procedure for manual tests (audits)

sponsor: @anjastrunk

- issue: [standards/#611](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/issues/611)
- Discussion: how will the manual audit and certification process be worked out?
    - Certification lifetime and intervals
    - Auditing internal workflows important. Not everything can be tested automatically through scripts - signature of CSP in some cases kind of trust-based
    - Effort of audits

#### Licensing Conflict

sponsor: @anjastrunk

- we are using libraries with different licenses in our source code, e.g., Apache License version 2, EPL, BSD
- How do we check (automatically) for license conflicts?
    - SBOMs (should be more broadly explained somewhere)
    - Is there an automated tool in Github that can detect license conflicts?

#### Mandatory Gaia-X Properties

sponsor: @anjastrunk

- copyright owner and license are mandatory for VM images and hypervisor credentials. Used results of google search as default settings. Legal issues?
- see [referenced spec](https://gaia-x.gitlab.io/policy-rules-committee/compliance-document/tables_mandatory_attributes/#virtual-resource)
