## 2025-07-03

### Participants (github handles preferred)

- @mbuechse
- @horazont
- @depressiveRobot
- @fkr

### Housekeeping

- @mbuechse on vacation in CW28 and CW29 - who will chair the SIG?
  - 2025-07-10: @depressiveRobot
  - 2025-07-17: @fkr

#### Check AIs from last time

- _AI @mbuechse: check with C&H folks what is planned about the Fitko demonstrator_
  - I have asked; internal evaluation ongoing
  - domain manager could be a hurdle
    - `enforce_new_defaults` not compatible with Yaook as of now: https://gitlab.com/yaook/operator/-/issues/558
    - keeping an entire local fork of the policies is not desirable for C&H
- _AI @mbuechse: create issue for drafting a new standard regarding self-description_
  - open
- _AI @mbuechse: create issue for new version of volume backup standard (snapshots etc.)_
  - open
- _AI @depressiveRobot will brief @fkr_
  - DONE

### Agenda

#### Certification of CSPs

sponsor: @depressiveRobot & @fkr

- @depressiveRobot and @fkr did a dry-run to certify a subject (CSP) and want to raise their questions
- We will certify beginning with a month. So for a certification of a CSP that we do now, we would certify as of July 2025 looking forward.
- Manual checks
  - There should be a document (PDF) that can be handed out to certification subjects that documents the needed informations that the subject should provide. The forum will maintain this PDF document and will make sure that it contains the needed items.
    - The document will be a PDF form. 
    - Each manual item will be a check-box that the CSPs clicks to state that they conform to the corresponding standard.
      - The PDF will contain deep-links to the Standards so that the content of the standard is not replicated.
      - Ideally this would be embedded into the tenant-capable compliance monitor of the future, but we're talking July 2025 here now :)
    - can be created whenever a new version of the scope is stabilized
    - additional idea: at the same point, maybe also create a checklist for how to upgrade from previous version (simple command lines if possible)
  - For service-apis-docs-check @fkr did not comprehend what is needed there
    - this name was a mistake; the documentation obligation is actually in the key-manager standard
  - @depressiveRobot How is [OpenStack Powered Compute v2022.11](https://opendev.org/openinfra/interop/src/branch/master/guidelines/2022.11.json) checked?
    - not implemented yet in compliance check suite
    - directly imported from OpenStack Powered Compute; therefore no documentation page in SCS docs
    - apparently, not much experience with `refstack` toolchain exists
    - pragmatic approach with manual checkbox in PDF certification form with report as attachment, until we have a solution for automated testing
  - presentation of certificates on website https://sovereigncloudstack.org
    - _AI @fkr/@depressiveRobot: check with Lisa to see what's best in terms of publicity_
- what is with the _certificate status page_?
  - https://docs.scs.community/standards/scs-0004-v1-achieving-certification/#regulations #4
  - needs history of all test and check results
  - regulation #6: public display/logo/badge needs link to this status page
  - possibly relax scs-0004 for a grace period regarding certificate status page
  - _AI @fkr/@depressiveRobot: develop an idea on how to optimize the presentation of certified CSPs_
- (rest moved to next time)
