## 2026-04-09

### Participants

- @mbuechse
- @jklare
- @depressiveRobot
- @matfechner
- @fkr
- @garloff

### Pending action items

- _AI @fzakfeld: create issue and draft a standard on IPv6 networking for IaaS_
  - ongoing, see [standards#1020](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/issues/1020)

### Certification application forms

sponsor: @depressiveRobot

- SCS-0004 IaaS application form: https://owncloud.osb-alliance.de/s/SzvLrgAw0BfVnrt
  - Explanation: why do we want to know product stack?
  	- Possible explanation: "Optional: Information is collected to improve development of future standards"
  - Add field for "region(s)"
  	- Precisely the regions listed will be tested and covered by the certificate!
- SCS-0004 KaaS application form: https://owncloud.osb-alliance.de/s/kOvI4SuemsIIUEs
  - generally expect one sentence explaining how control-plane node distribution is ensured
- SCS-0007 IaaS application form: TBD
- SCS-0007 KaaS application form: TBD

### KaaS certification with various config options

sponsor: @janiskemper

- Many KaaS providers offer multiple (partially wildly different) configs to be chosen by the customer, such as CNI provider.
	- CNI is fundamental enough to have a significant risk to break compliance
	- so the provider interested in becoming certified has to chose one or more configs to be certified, and each one has to be tested and results aggregated
	- node distribution should work by default; if deviating config is possible, it should take some conscious effort to activate that
- What about GPUs though? VMs vs bare metal? Different underlying infrastructure, e.g. AWS and StackIT? Do we ignore this?
  - not discussed

### Stabilize scs-0007-v2

sponsor: @depressiveRobot

- PR: [standards#1140](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/1140)
- Just do it!

### CAPI images

sponsor: @mbuechse

- currently recommended
- canonical image source has changed
- some installations still refer to the old source, which means their images are really old
- questions:
  - use SCS harbor to host "official SCS" CAPI images?
  - add some requirement regarding replacement frequency so it is kept current?
- _AI @fkr: remind UhuruTec_

### KaaS CVE/patch handling

sponsor: @depressiveRobot

- issue: [standards#1098](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/issues/1098)
- PR: [standards#1099](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/1099)
- looks like there is an agreement, so lets wrap up the open conversations
- Question: Are all severe CVEs listed, so we don't need to require timely patch release delivery but only timely CVE fixes?
- PR has open discussions; fkr advocating for a new, clean PR
  - start by relaxing existing version, just dropping (or significantly relaxing) the 2-weeks requirement for patches
