# 2023-02-03

## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* @horazont
* @o-otte
* @jschoone
* @frosty-geek

## Recurring items
* Who is presenting in weekly community call and transforming etherpad to minutes in GitHub?
 @horazont

* Anything else to add to the agenda?

## Agenda

1. dNation shows us some kubernetes monitoring
2. We discuss k8s monitoring

## dNation k8s monitoring

Web summary: https://dnation.cloud/products/kubernetes-monitoring/

* with growing number of clusters, it gets trickier to find the signal (issues) in the noise (metrics)
* default grafana dashboards for the components weren't useful
* created own monitoring stack as a result (based on prometheus, grafana, loki)
* Goal: first glance on the screen should tell you whether there is an action item or not

    * Use colour coding (green: ok; yellow: might become a problem in the near future, or is a problem but not urgent; red: immediate action item)

    * Avoid visual clutter by only showing things relevant to the drill-down level

    * Example: each node in the highest level overview gets only a single, colour-coded box.

    * Collapse everything by default, show number of issues at top in stat panels

    * Use stat panels in grafana instead of graph panels


## Discussion

* What about USE? <https://www.brendangregg.com/usemethod.html>

    * Not looked at yet

    * But for some resources, that might be covered by Kubernetes monitoring

* Is the customization of dashboards automated?

    * There are templates which are deployed on first install, and then customized

    * Some things are available though (elasticsearch monitoring for instance)

* Plusserver talks a little

    * Using Cortex + remote-write API to record metrics; built-in cortex alertmanager

    * Configuration in git, argo-cd to deploy

    * Alerts are forwarded into the main monitoring system

    * Mostly using stock dashboards and relying on well-edited alert descriptions

* How did you find thresholds for yellow and red?

    * Educated guesses for many

    * Tweaked in response to experience

* What about multiple clusters?

    * Supported, the demo only showed one cluster because of customer publishing constraints


## AOB
No AOB.
