# 2024-05-03

## Participants

- @bitkeks
- @matofeder
- @artifical-intelligence
- @o-otte
- @berendt
- @gtema

## Orga

* Reporting in next week's community call: @matofeder
* Transfer of minutes: @matofeder

## Agenda

### SCS monitoring platform (@matofeder)

- Support for k3s has been added, read the [docs](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-observability/blob/main/docs/k3s.md)
    - Motivation behind: Ability to use SCS Mon. in IaaS k3s cluster (OSISM)
    - Also see yesterday's Ops call: https://input.scs.community/2024-scs-team-ops#IaaS-Monitoring-scoopex-matofeder
- SCS Mon. platform is available on the IaaS layer (k3s management cluster)
    - `$ osism apply kubernetes-monitoring`
- What next?
    - We need to wire the IaaS metrics exporters into the SCS Mon. platform (K3s management cluster)
    - Options:
        1. Use kolla-ansible prometheus role to deploy IaaS metrics exporters, see [here](https://opendev.org/openstack/kolla-ansible/src/branch/master/ansible/roles/prometheus/defaults/main.yml)
            - PROS:
                - All needed configuration of prometheus server and metrics exporters is already there
            - CONS: 
                - The role is intended to deploy prometheus server **together** with metrics exporters around
                - Could be tricky to deploy only exporter containers without prometheus server (hack)
                - It creates a dependency between kolla-ansible and SCS Monitoring
        2. Deploy metrics exporters to the k3s cluster
            - PROS:
                - SCS Mon. does not have any non-k8s dependency (e.g. kolla-ansible)
                - We could deploy all exporters in k8s native way using Helm, e.g. https://github.com/openstack-exporter/helm-charts
                - One needed exporter is already there (part of SCS Mon.): node-exporter
                - The Prometheus server/exporters configuration could be inspired by the kolla-ansible configs
            - CONS:
                - It takes some time to implement it
    - Discussion
        - Do both? Not all exporters can be used in option 2. Exporters can be disabled by setting their flag, allowing them to be deployed in k3s cluster
        - For OpenStack metrics, accessing the OpenStack database directly bypasses API client and might be more performant. see https://github.com/vexxhost/openstack_database_exporter
        - Ceph exporter will also be needed, covering storage
        - Network is mainly covered by node exporter. SONiC will be looked at later ([monsoon](https://github.com/STORDIS/monsoon))
        - Afterwards, additional services from kolla project will be looked at (rabbitmq etc.)
