# 2024-03-01


## Participants

- @rhizoet
- @matofeder
- @artificial-intelligence
- @horazont
- @berendt
- @o-otte
- @bitkeks (until 13:30)
- @chess-knight
- @janhorstmann
- @fkr (until 13:30)


## Orga

* Reporting in next week's community call: @matofeder
* Transfer of minutes: @matofeder

## Agenda


### Etcd alerts (@matofeder)
- take the discussion from the matrix chat to the meeting
- what are the next steps? as we know that the host disk (SSD) has high latency: (99percentile > 100ms), etcd recommeds < 10ms
    - silence the alert?
    - adjust the alert treshold? 
- Reference: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/scalability_and_performance/recommended-performance-scale-practices/recommended-etcd-practices.html
    - tl;dr: Those latencies can cause etcd to miss heartbeats, not commit new proposals to the disk on time, and ultimately experience request timeouts and temporary leader loss. High write latencies also lead to an OpenShift API slowness, which affects cluster performance. 
- Resolution: matej investigates fallout of raising the threshold
- Is there another etcd heartbeat check? - Look into repo

### R6 release of monitoring (@matofeder)
- what should be done before R6 in https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-observability ?
    - @fkr: Add documentation for deploying it on SCS-KaaS
        - @berendt: maybe also for the IaaS-k3s
    - release notes?
    - tag?
    - For the formalities, @matofeder will ask in the SIG Release Matrix channel for input.
    - @o-otte: How specific is this repository to SCS infrastructure? There are some files related to SCS infrastructure (e.g. registry, zuul) in there.
        - @matofeder: Some is indeed quite specific to SCS infrastructure.

### IaaS monitoring (@matofeder)

- Test of the Thanos sidecar deployment in OSISM Testbed - WIP by the OSISM team
- Status update:
    - OSISM Testbed repository pull requests are being worked on, many merged, one not merged yet
    - OSISM are looking into the last bits.
