# 2022-11-21
## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* @itrich
* @maxwolfs
* @tkobzarenko

## Recurring items
* Who submits minutes to the repo?
  * @itrich
* Anything else to add to the agenda?
	* Survey by @tkobzarenko

## Agenda
* Feedback on SCS Community Hackathon? Was everything clear? What can we improve?
	* More communication on LinkedIn
	* Unofficial pre- and aftershow are great!
	* Report 
	
### Community profile
* Idea to create an official community profile (e.g. https://scs.community/itrich)
* Create clear instructions on how to create an own profile (e.g. an instructional video with screen recording)
	* Don't just dump some screenshots, they won't get the same friction as a video
	* Include a slide on the benefits of having such a profile
* Communicate the benefits of having such a profile (networking, showing achievements, duty, etc.)
* Good example provided by @tkobzarenko: https://trailblazer.me/id/tkobzarenko
* Further ideas to add:
	* Certification, proof of experience
	* Recommend others (and confirm their skills - reference)
* Find a good way to maintain the data without spoofing personal data
* Start next yeayr (but before Hackathon 2023)
* Reach out to LinkedIn and make public aware of this new feature
* Discussion on technical realization -> Conclude this after we have challenged our initial idea with a bigger audience

### Community Hackathon 2023
* Gather feedback from SIG Community next week
* Invite attendees to attend the next SIG Community meeting and provide feedback for 2023
* Send out follow-up this week for next Hackathon!
* Follow-up on LinkedIn with some highlights on the Hackathon and invitation to subscribe to our newsletter/mailing list
	* Open mailing list ASAP!
	
### Mission statement/description for Teams and SIG
* See https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/website/pull/454/
* Add a direct link to the calendar entry
* Maybe add some keywords?
	
* Side discussion: Work on user journey for both pages (website and docs site) should be clear and easy. Work on this next Monday, 2022-11-28. @maxwolfs and @itrich will reach out to the community!

### AOB
* Survey by @tkobzarenko
	* Gather data from our community members: Companies, Size of company, Business approach
	* Reach out to community in January
	* State of the Community 2022
	* Share goal of the survey (don't just drop the link to the mailing list), add some motivation to fill out the survey :)
	* Start with preperation NOW!
	* Max proposed Typeform or https://github.com/ohmyform/ohmyform
