# SIG Community

Goal: How to further open our community to the public.

## Current situation

- UCS instance with central user management (sponsored by Univention)
- Mailing lists are synced automatically with user base on UCS (https://github.com/garloff/ucs2mailman3)
- Nextcloud running on UCS serving various files among the registered members

## Battle plan

### Mailing lists

- Stick with Mailman3
- Open the existing mailing lists (scs-member, scs-tech, announce, scs-productboard) to the public
- Make it possible to freely sign up to mailing lists (with confirmation mail)
- first-time contributors should be moderated (to be discussed)
- how to deal with confidential content? -> Create a hidden/private mailing list. (to be discussed)
- new naming scheme:
  - release (supersedes announce)
  - scs-general (supersedes scs-members)
  - scs-tech
  - scs-productboard (do we really need this?) -> discuss in next PB meeting
  - scs-member (hidden/private list for manually onboarded organization) -> How to handle signups/signoffs?
  - other:
    - security (private with joint PGP key) -> for security questions
    - privacy (to comply with GDPR)
    - internal mailing lists (team, project, etc.)

### Nextcloud

- push minutes to GitHub (starting from today)
- make community aware that they should announce "off-the-record" + include this in CoC?
- make attendees list optional (and add a hint in the minutes template "By entering your name, you agree.....")
- How to handle "confidential" documents?
- private repository in GitHub
- How to handle old documents? -> Archive somewhere (in a private repository?)

### Other topics

- how to handle GDPR? (e.g. hint before entering name in attendee list) -> contact privacy officer of the OSB Alliance
