# 2022-07-27

## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* @itrich
* @matfechner
* @rautenberg
* @garloff
* @tibeer

## Recurring items

* Who is presenting in weekly community call?
	* @matfechner

* Anything else to add to the agenda?

## Agenda:
* current situation on self-service on-boarding

* mentorship
	* Try to combine powers/knowledge (e.g. OSISM and PlusServer)
	* Create list of voluntary tutors
		* Create sub-chanel on Matrix to coordinate tutors
	* What do I need to bring along as a tutor?
		* Knowledge and time
		* Have a brief understanding of the mission statement of SCS
	* While it is easy to give a good first start, it may be hard to give technical details
		* This is not the scope of tutorship
	* What should I take care of as tutor?
		* Give a brief overview of our community infrastructure (calendar, Matrix, mailing lists, etc.)
		* Promote GitHub SCS Org. and give links to relevant boards, discussions, 
		* Show some details from the website
		* Lower the bar to enter the community
		* Be present to answer questions
	* Give a guideline to the tutors
		* @tibeer will look up of a good text he has in mind
		* Collect Frequently Asked Questions for tutors (and possibly also for home page)
	* Create a "standard" welcome mail for the tutors (that only needs to be adapted slightly)
	* May it be dangerous to promptly contact people?
		* Be careful about the right time to contact people (they should have an own motivation to enter the community)
		* Create a GitHub bot to contact first-time contributors (AI @itrich – will research on this)
	* Tutorship for people, not organizations
		* How to handle people that are pushed forward by their organization?
		* Tutor should attend first-time calls with project management
		* Tutor should not make any promises regarding the strategic roadmap of the project // tenders // design decisions, etc.
	* Eduard will condense a text for the community (mission statement, goals, etc.) and promote it to the community
		* include an invitation to become a tutor
			* @tibeer is on board :-)
			* lower the bar (and expectations) for interested tutors that don't feel yet comfortable
	* Existing onboarding doc (focused more for new employees, but most info is also relevant for non-OSBA-employees): https://scs.sovereignit.de/nextcloud/apps/files/?dir=/Sovereign%20Cloud%20Stack/Collaboration&openfile=20695

* community summit and hackathon
	* discussion whether we can offer a hybrid event
		* Groups during the hackathon may feel free to connect via Jitsi with remote people
		* Stream the content (talks, demos, etc.) during the Summit
