# 2022-12-19
## Participants - use of github handle is preferred

* @maxwolfs
* @itrich
* @tibeer
* @ra-beer

## Recurring items
* Who submits minutes to the repo?
	* @itrich
* Anything else to add to the agenda?
	* User flow website <-> docs page

## Agenda

### On-boarding of dNation
@tibeer and @ra-beer together with @itrich

### Community Hackathon 2023
* Is everyone fine with Thursday, 2023-03-02?
* Agenda
	* Should we officially start at 09:00 or 13:00 CEST?
		* Let's start at 10:00 CEST and seperate traveling from working to reduce cognitive overload.
	* What else to improve?
		* Fix topics/working slots earlier before the Hackathon
		* Clear any privacy-related questions (e.g. rights of recorded material) before the Hackathon
		* Clear any safety rules regarding datacenter tour before the Hackathon
		* Rather have a Pre-social-event than a After-social-event
		* Have a "real" break with seperate room away from the "working" space
		* Let the working streams present their results at the end of the Hackathon
	* What is the goal of the Hackathon?
		* Focus on concrete topics / action items / issues and collaborateivly drill down
	
### User flow website <-> docs page
* Migrate Community Blog to docs.scs.community
* Rework scs.community as "one-pager"
* Define different target group for docs.scs.community and scs.community
* which keywords are relevant for SEO? Keyword analysis for target groups would make sense
* Big joint topic between market, community and documentation SIGs

### AOB
* Invite other companies to join the "community mentorship" program
