## 2023-10-09

#### Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* @aeroflydesign
* @FriederikeZelke
* @nadja234
* @rholling
* @fdobrovolny
* @maxwolfs

#### Reporting in community call
* @fdobrovolny

### Agenda

* Charter/Goals for this SIG
    * In this meeting we develop the community strategy and organize work for community collaboration. We build an open community, spread the word of SCS, organize community events and make this great open source community integrating, interesting, informing, involving, and inspiring.
* CoC
    * https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
    * -> at the Open Stack Technical Committee it is pointed out at the beginning of each meeting https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IEYyVIKBhVQ (openstack TC)
    * we will discuss this topic also in the SCS team
* Ideas for positioning the CoC
    * also at the community pages (maybe as a subpage)
    * everywhere where is a big touchpoint (startpages, calendar https://docs.scs.community/community/calendar)
    * https://scs.community (footer?)
    * head of our hedgedocs
* OnBoarding
* Blog (where, why)
* Collaboration tools: 
https://ms.scs.sovereignit.de/nextcloud/apps/files/?dir=/Sovereign%20Cloud%20Stack/Collaboration&fileid=20694

# Code of Conduct

## Sovereign Cloud Stack Community

Sovereign Cloud Stack (SCS) is a network of organizations and individuals: providers, integrators, contributors, users, and associates of standardized sovereign cloud infrastructure. We join forces in defining, implementing and operating a fully open, federated, compatible infrastructure and platform. 

@fdobrovolny: Definining the last sentence: "defining, implementing and operating a fully open, federated, compatible *infrastructure and platform.*"
* Ecosystem
* Ecosystem and Framework
* Cloud
* Cloud and infrastructure
* Platform
* Framework
* Architecture and solution
* Framework and setup
* Solution
* building blocks

We are committed to ["The Four Opens"](https://www.openstack.org/four-opens/) of the [Open Infrastructure Foundation](https://openinfra.dev/) and align our actions according to these four non-negotiable core principles of open collaboration. To include the whole DevOps approach we added the fifth open: [Open Operations](https://openoperations.org/).

We do believe that an open and welcoming environment is essential for an active and engaged community. As contributors and maintainers we pledge to making participation in our project and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone. 

No list is ever exhaustive, so we encourage members of the SCS community to adhere to the spirit, rather than the letter, of this code, as that is how it will be enforced. Places where this code may be particularly applicable are GitHub issues and pull requests, chat, mailing lists, discussions on social networks broadly directed at or between members of the community, and other direct interactions within the community. Violations may lead to verbal or even public warnings or -- especially in case of continued or flagrant offenses -- may affect an individual’s (or organization’s) ability to participate within the SCS community.

^Add meetings? - @fdobrovolny

We encourage you to confront someone or a group of people that you observe to be in violation of the CoC (whether in letter or in spirit) with your observation, so that the person(s) can correct his/her/their behavior. If this is not successful or it is difficult for you to confront the people and you seek support for this, you may contact the SCS project lead at <project-lead@lists.scs.community>.

A large fraction of SCS consists of contributions to upstream projects. All SCS contributors are expected to adhere to the respective upstream Codes of Conduct when interacting with such projects, or developing code intended for upstreaming.

## Our Standards

We ask you to please adhere to the following basic rules:

* **Be friendly and patient.** We were all new or lacked knowledge at various points in time. Please try to remember what it felt like to be on that end, and treat people accordingly.
* **Use welcoming and inclusive language.** We strive to be a community that welcomes and supports people of all backgrounds and identities. This includes, but is not limited to members of any race, ethnicity, culture, national origin, organization, color, immigration status, social and economic status, educational level, level of experience, sex characteristics, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, age, body size and personal appearance, disability, family status, political belief, religion, and mental and physical ability.
* **Be helpful.** By helping others to learn our entire ecosystem is enriched. We encourage members of the SCS community to mentor each other and help to raise the general level of knowledge in the community whenever possible.
* **Choose words that shows respect, empathy and promote constructive dialogue.** We are a community of professionals, and we conduct ourselves professionally. Be kind to others. Do not insult or put down other participants. Harassment and other exclusionary behavior aren’t acceptable. This includes, but is not limited to:
  * Violent threats or language directed against another person.
  * Discriminatory jokes and language.
  * Posting sexually explicit or violent material.
  * Posting (or threatening to post) other people’s personally identifying information (“doxing”), regardless of whether it is publicly available.
  * Personal insults, especially those using racist, sexist, or otherwise discriminatory terms.
  * Deliberately referring to others by names or pronouns counter to their identity.
  * Unwelcome sexual attention.
  * Repeated harassment of others, e.g. not stopping behavior when someone asks you to stop.
  * Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior.
* **Be respectful, accept differing viewpoints and focus on what is best for the community.** Not all of us will agree all the time, but disagreement is no excuse for poor behavior and poor manners. We might all experience some frustration now and then, but we cannot allow that frustration to turn into a personal attack. It’s important to remember that a community where people feel uncomfortable or threatened is not a productive one. Members of the SCS community should be respectful when dealing with other members as well as with people outside the SCS community.
* **When we disagree, try to understand why.** Disagreements, both social and technical, happen all the time and SCS is no exception. It is important that we resolve disagreements and differing views constructively. Remember that we’re different. The strength of SCS comes from its broad community, people from a wide range of backgrounds. Different people have different perspectives on issues. Being unable to understand why someone holds a viewpoint doesn’t mean that they’re wrong. Don’t forget that it is human to err and blaming each other doesn’t get us anywhere. Instead, focus on helping to resolve issues and learning from mistakes.

### Attribution

This Code of Conduct is mainly adapted from the [Asahi Linux Code of Conduct](https://asahilinux.org/code-of-conduct/) and the [Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/2/1/code_of_conduct/).
