# 2023-05-22

#### Channels in Matrix
* seperation from General and Announcements?

# 2023-05-08

## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* @FriederikeZelke
* @maxwolfs
* @garloff
* @jschoone
* @tibeer
* @o-otte

## Recurring items
* Who is presenting in Community Call on Thursday?
    * @jschoone
* Who is taking minutes and submits minutes to the repo?
    * @garloff and @FriederikeZelke

## Agenda
### Introduction and aiming of this SIG
- Further opening SCS to the community
- How to make it more attractive for people outside of our tender package winners and CSPs? - private contributors 
- Tough for private persons / students?
    - Too much infra needed?
    - E2E tests require quite some infra ...
    - Ideas: Local devstack in VMs with small nodes (min SCS-2V-8-60), kind
    - TODO: Create meaningful subsets of our stack where contributions can be developed and validated with less high infra requirements
        - E.g. Using kind provider to emulate capo clusters (cluster classes help)
        - Official small solutions provided by SCS project (with 90+% SCS compliance, as many shared parts with SCS as possible) would enhance our usefulness (for contributors, App Devs)
        - Risk for defocusing SCS?
    - k8s != k8s, thus SCS standard for k8s can provide value
        - Storage, ingress, encrypt, HA properties, hardening (e.g. no hostpath), ...
    - Provide test/demo tenants for devs?
        - via partners (PlusServer offers this already to us)
        - shared tenant that gets reset every night?
        - easily onboard named/known individuals
        - B2C needed
            - Hetzner?
                * SCS-compatible k8s capi should be relatively easy (caph from syself)
    - Next steps:
        - SCS-k8s-in-a-box: @jschoone
        - SCS-cloud-in-a-box: Anything to do?
        - Meetups, Conferences, ... -> present with hands-on sessions
- Community Events: Hackathons, Meetups
- Community Profiles: https://scs.community/members/<NAME>
    * Including badges
- Blog contributions
    * Position docs.scs.community as community platform (vs. scs.community as our public face)
        - Of course content can be on both if it fits

### Housekeeping
* Only once per month sufficient?
    - Move to bi-weekly @FriederikeZelke

### Preliminary announcement
* Hackathon in autum at Cloud & Heat in Dresden (in November)
