# Backlog

# 2023-03-13

## Participants - use of github handle is preferred

* @itrich
* @matfechner
* @garloff
* @berendt
* @aeroflydesign
* @ra-beer
* @maxwolfs

## Recurring items

* Who submits minutes to the repo?
  * @ra-beer
* Anything else to add to the agenda?

## Agenda

### Recap SCS Community Hackathon Nuremberg

* It's hard for partners that aren't yet involved with the Community to efficiently plan .
* Data center tour was very much fun (although a bit longer than expected).
  * No third data center tour for the next hackathon (maybe something else)
* Great venue
  * Venue size was great to split groups
  * Kitchen was well equipped
* Output of the hackathon was not as productive as last time
* Lost a few people on the way to the bar -> do social event on the evening b/f the hackathon?
* Motel One has some organizational problems with booking/payment
* Great photos! (Maybe try to keep picture taking more in background or limit photography taking time.)

### Check list for future hackathons

#### Preparation

* Having a organization team is very valuable

#### Venue

* Several rooms around open space is good
* Drinks & Food in kitchen was good idea
  * Mate!
* Fruits and "healthy" snacks; also think of salty snacks
* Vegan food alternative
* No more pizza!

#### Communication

* More advertisement of the event
* Check hotel recommendation if there are any known problems

#### Things to remember (with an approx. deadline)

* Send data protection statement beforehand
* Bring along some blank name badges
* Think of merchandise with enough lead time
* Make reservation for dinner for larger group ahead of time

#### During the event

* Arrival and check-in-time should be longer
* Sessions should be "introduced"/pitched to the attendees at the beginning
* Add more structure during the event (e.g. by providing a clear break).
  * Try to find a good balance between structure and ad-hoc discussions
  * Mix planned sessions (with enough lead time) and free time ("barcamp") for spontaneous discussions
* Pre-planned sessions could also be scheduled and announced
  * Tender winners should propose sessions and participate!
  * Have major sessions (that span the whole day) and minor sessions with smaller fixed time slots
* There should be a designated session lead that keeps people involved and summarizes the results (or keeps care of someone doing this)
* It's hard for attendees to see which discussions are currently running and where, e.g. by providing a dashboard and maybe signs at the tables
  * Visualize what happens when where!
* Add designated no-photo-area
* Summary presentation (was good)
  * Set fixed time box for each presentation (and questions/discussions)
* Limit time to photograph attendees

#### After the event

* After-event-location was not optimal for talking (due to loudness)
* Add chore time to schedule of the event
* It's hard to find a suitable after-event-location for every requirement/POV
* Having the possibility to reject photos from being published was well accepted

#### Discussions

* Don't plan an after-event and allow the attendees to hack 'till midnight ;-)
  * Rather have an official pre-event
  * A "final" end to the day however can be beneficial for the majority
