# 2024-01-08

## Reporting in community call and minutes transfer to repo
* FriederikeZelke

### Participants
* @maxwolfs
* @FriederikeZelke
* @nadja234
* @bitkeks
* @scoopex
* @aeroflydesign

## Agenda

###  Improvement: Add a directory of employees and community members

- https://scs.community/members/

@scoopex

I think it would be a good thing to have a directory of community members and OSBA colleagues. A colleague has just pointed out to me that it was an odyssey until he found my contact or phone number. This is also often an issue for me when I want to contact colleagues who have not configured their firstname/lastname in Matrix so that you can quickly recognize their name.

For example, we could add a menu item "People" in the top-navigation which would then provide a simple overview list with profile picture and name which then links to the respective profile pages.     

We currently only have around 20 colleagues in the website repository in the "employee" and "member" folders. It would be good if more colleagues were registered here so that it doesn't look so thin and becomes useful.

We could also consider limiting indexing in Google (robots.txt) or introducing a flag that means that people are not generally displayed in the list of people. 

I think the topic is interesting for the following reasons:
- it makes it easier for community members to network
- it shows the outside world that we have an active community

* How to handle this topic?
    * Do we want to have contact information at our website? Which information?
    * https://scs.community/2023/01/27/community-profiles/
    * Who: team coordinators, SCS Team, CSP representatives
    * @scoopex will try to make the landing page pretty and will coordinate this topic

### Community Pages
* https://input.scs.community/2023-sig-community-section#
* @FriederikeZelke will prepare a draft for the landing page and publish a hacking session on 26.1.2024
* For Code of conduct: opening a new issue with description: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/docs/issues

### Events
* more coordination of events, where SCS, the ecosystem and the community can collaborate
* @FriederikeZelke will provide the event list to ther community
