## 2024-05-27

### Participants
- @FriederikeZelke
- @jschoone
- @berendt
- @reginametz

### Reporting in community call and minutes transfer to repo
- @FriederikeZelke

#### Topics
* Update:
    * location is fixed: SysEleven invites us to Boxhagener Str. 79 in the middle of Berlin
    * date must be fixed soon 
    * up to 100 attendees

* Definition of End-of-Funding-Event
    * Name? SCS EOF Event? to be discussed, there have been some concerns about the title
    *  Re-cap of SCS as funded project
    *  R7 as a compilation of all achievements

* Talks
    * POs + Matthias present their topics
    * CfP for the other slots

* AI
    * Definition text: @FriederikeZelke and @reginametz to be reviewed by @berendt
        * Shortly before the Sovereign Cloud Stack Project funding from the BMWK ends, the SCS Community will gather to recapture their achievements, transfer the collected knowledge, and show the variety of SCS. The technical teams will present SCS as a technical product, including the standards - compiled in the release R7. All the technical achievements enable many scenarios ranging from public cloud offering to private cloud deployment in an academic setting - partners will give insights into their use cases of SCS. SCS provides a solution for all cloud computing environments, big or small, as well as a possibility for interoperability of multi-cloud strategies, with open standards, community, and open ecosystem in mind, providing democratization of the cloud. This is the foundation of the sustainable usage of SCS - in the long term. As part of the SCS community, we invite you to trace the SCS path with us and celebrate the achievements on that day.
        * AI: @FriederikeZelke: Some information about SCS for the sponsoring mail. all datas of the event like SysEleven invites us...


    * time table: @FriederikeZelke and @reginametz
        * 12 - 18.30 CEST program
        * 6 SCS team / SIG pitches
        * 6 partner pitches
        * 12 - 12.20 CEST Greetings SCS achieved - created values - Kurt / SCS Team, eventually BMWK
        * 12.20 - 12.40 CEST team / SIG pitch
        * 12.40 - 13.00 CEST partner pitch
        * 13.00 - 13.20 CEST team / SIG pitch
        * 13.20 - 13.40 CEST partner pitch
        * Break: 13.40 - 14.20 CEST with coffee and finger food
        * 14.20 - 14.40 CEST team / SIG pitch
        * 14.40 - 15.00 CEST partner pitch
        * 15.00 - 15.20 CEST team / SIG pitch
        * 15.20 - 15.40 CEST partner pitch
        * 15.40 - 16.00 CEST team / SIG pitch
        * 16.00 - 16.20 CEST partner pitch
        * Break: 16:20 - 17:00 CEST
        * 17.00 - 17.20 CEST team / SIG pitch
        * 17.20 - 17.40 CEST partner pitch
        * 17.40 - 18.30 CEST Recap and Future planing (Kurt)
        * 18.30 - open end Get to-gether (with drinks, food, music, ...) 
