# SCS Tech Weekly 2022-08-18

## Meta

- Minutes: Jonas

## Team Updates

### Team IaaS

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/iaas/20220817.md

- Octavia debugging (Wavestack): doesn't work cleanly with DVR
- IPv6 experiments: waiting for routing
- Python version: discussion about versioning went into a fun rabbithole about software-bill-of-materials in our container images which should be addressed in R4
- Automated tests for Xena -> Yoga
- Disk encryption blogpost: https://scs.community/2022/08/17/osism-nbde-install/

### Team Container

Minutes not available yet: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/tree/main/container

- Long discussion about roles in KaaS cluster management
- REST API in front of the SCS Operator which is driven using C-API

  - Maximum flexibility and transparency
  - Need a wrapper because multi-tenancy with C-API is tricky

- Discussion about gaps in the current SCS cluster management

  - Among others, certificate rotation (Overflow slot on Aug 29th)

### Team Operations and IAM

Minutes not available yet: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/tree/main/ops-iam

- R3 impending
- Keycloak federation
- Open Review Toolkit analysis
- Status page requirements

### Monitoring SIG

### Community SIG

- GitHub Manager is now in production use

### Standardisation SIG

- KaaS-focused meeting today
- Strawman REST API proposal

### IAM SIG

- Will look into Keycloak federation.

### Release SIG

- Date fixed: Wed Sept 29th will be R3 day
- Blogpost preparation WIP
- Release notes should be collected

### Lean Operator Coffee

### Next overflow slot

## AOB

### Open Operations Manifesto

- Work session on the text.
- Current state: https://openoperations.org/
- Open work packages: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/open-operations-manifesto/issues

### Team session minutes

- Jonas would love to have them available by the time this session starts
- Can we commit on minutes being ready by this timeslot?
- Responsibilities not fully clear

  - Kurt thought he as PO has to do it, Eduard said that it's the responsibility of the reporter
  - This was clarified now :-)

- Workflow: either classic git usage, or you can also try the GitHub Web interface if you feel adventurous :-)

## Project Updates

**NB:** This section will only contain the minutes on things which are not explicitly mentioned in the corresponding slides. In addition, things which are being repeated (such as job offers) in meetings will may not be repeated in the minutes.

### Personnel

- In discussions with PO Container, Knowledge Management Engineer
- On Sept 1st, an Adoption & Ecosystem Manager will join

### Tender

- Federation awarded today (to Univention)
- Lot 13 (Metering) published
- Lot 6c and 10-3 evaluating
- Upcoming: Lot 5 (KaaS), Lot 6a (Container networking/storage), Lot 9c (Pentesting)

### Community

See slides for events.
