# 2022-09-05

## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* @garloff
* @fkr
* @itrich
* @ManuelaUr

## Recurring items
* Who is presenting in weekly community call and transforming etherpad to minutes in gitlab?
* 
* Anything else to add to the agenda?


## Agenda

* zuul rework
  * Was necessary to be able to test upgrade and to test upstream changes
    * Major investment into CI wanted, making improvements visible and accessible
* Update to R3 (yoga) on wavestack mostly successful, next is PlusServer
  * wave: octavia problem resolved by reconfiguration (may not have been necessary) and fix of anti-affinity setting
    * (additional activity @CB: check whether amphorae are automatically upgraded as well)
  * wave: remaining issue with DNS on one compute host
  * wave: these issues found by openstack-health-monitor (it IS useful :-))
  * advice for plus to proceed with upgrade (despite disappointing automation for upgrade testing and limited OSISM availability) and monitor
    * Should we create a branch off something that becomes stable later?
      * v4.0.0-alpha tag later this week, throttle risk even more on what we merge to main past pre (no branch, main becomes v4.0.0 later)
  * wave: health-monitor public for github SCS members: (KG) https://health.wavestack1.sovereignit.cloud:3000
    * Get plus and beta to do it as well?
      * rebuild betacloud in KA
    * Separate Press Release: Now 3 SCS providers with Open Ops!?
      * Manifesto pre-release b/f EclipseCon
* Hosting structura-x.eu
  * What?
  * Really?
  * Who knows more?

* Definition: what is the testbed and what is its purpose (=> something for Team IaaS call?)
Also more broadly: How do we do CI and what role does testbed and various branches play there?
