# Minutes SCS Product Board 2022-11-14

## About the SCS Product Board

Our SCS Product Board: This is our virtual technical leadership team: CPO,
Team/SIG POs/Speakers, Key contributors. This tactically prepares the team
meetings (sprint planning) with respect to key priorities and cross-team
topics.

It also looks at more strategic topics:
- What is our roadmap?
- ~~how do we grow and organize the tech community?~~
- Identify and manage cross-team / cross-SIG topics
- What are the main technical requirements from our (potential) customers and what are key OSS/industry trends to take into account? (We also plan to have a higher-level view on this on a quarterly basis involving leaders from our partners.)

The product board is the sponsor for the three technical teams and technical SIGs and thus covers
- Standardization
- Reference Implementation
- Operational Collaboration & Transparency

Beware: the contents of this pad will be publically available and the resulting minutes stored on github:
- Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/tree/main/product-board
- Etherpad: https://input.osb-alliance.de/p/2022-scs-product-board
- Jitsi server on https://conf.scs.koeln:8443/SCS-Tech
- Dial-In: +49-221-292772-611
- Coordinator: Kurt Garloff <garloff[at]osb-alliance.com>

## Participants (github handles preferred)
* @fkr
* @maxwolfs
* @berendt
* @garloff

## Agenda

### Keycloak quo vadis?
* https://github.com/osism/release/pull/621
    - keycloak integrated into OSISM in order to make federation possible (also in context of Gaia-X)
    - was meant to be a temporary solution ... OSISM not skilled to maintain keycloak
    - who maintains it? tender lot 8 winner?
    - how to deploy it?
    - what is the place for the IAM service / IAM broker in our architecture?
* Do we need a generic mechanism to add containers to the OSISM deployment?
    - plugin mechanism for playbooks and containers?
    	* exists - requires custom ansible playbooks currently and then deploying additional containers into docker/docker-compose
    - Future roadmap from OSISM: Provide a k8s cluster in the management plane, so operator can automate the deployment of extra services (e.g. for Ops tooling or for IAM)
    	* using minikube / k3s / ... for the OSISM management cluster (~3 hosts)
    	* even an external k8s cluster could be used
    - Create a Hackathon project for this (@berendt): 
      https://input.osb-alliance.de/p/2022-11-scs-hackathon-ccaa
      https://notes.parinux.org/9x9oSCS%20Community%20Hackathon%202022

### Product Board charter (see draft above -- about SCS product board)
* This is the invitation text from the appointment
* Italic text has been added by @garloff in prep for this meeting
* Too broad? Let's clarify this
* Consistent participation is wanted!
    - Excuse yourself if you can´t make it
    - Occasional watchers can not expect to get every question answered

### Better Backlog needed
* A larger pool of refined user stories would help our partners to perform work

=> continuous backlog grooming

### Workpackage OpenStack Image Manager
* what are our requirements towards handling such work items?
* Wed IaaS team meeting

