# Minutes SCS Product Board 2022-11-21

## Participants (github handles preferred)
* @fkr
* @garloff
* @frosty-geek
* @berendt
* @itrich
* @maxwolfs
* @lossack

## Agenda

### Vertical services deep dive
* Mini k8s (k0s, k3s, minikube, ...) on management plane (providing a standard interface to deploye extra-service on management plane, replacing current containerd with ansible roles mechanism): 
    - Mini-Workshop / Deep-dive planned (AI @fkr)
    - Plusserver is interested in this and would like to stay in the loop regarding this as this will be alot of efford to switch to this later on

### Development x Docs
fkr: I'd like to discuss how we assure that documentation efforts are aligned with the product development, since documentation is an integral part of our product. 
See: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/docs-page/issues/1

* Structure, Methodology, Tooling -> SIG Doc
* Content -> Technical Teams
    - Proofreading (with a Reader/User perspective) highly desirable

### x-dependencies
* Storage at rest always encrypted? (Req. from Container to IaaS team.)
    - Not for local storage?
    - define what is the definition of "encrypted data at rest" -> ssd level, controller level, os hypervisor...; who holds the keys...; D-R Scenarios

    => Ask in the Team IaaS Team Call


### Making use of C-i-a-B
* IaaS: OSISM
    - MVP ready:
    	* no prometheus, elastic
    	* no ceph
    	* enough for putting k8s KaaS on top
    	* wireguard to connect to it (internal VLAN)
    - https://github.com/osism/cloud-in-a-box
* KaaS, IAM, Ops: How to integrate preinstall?
    - Two scripts, can provide modularized scriptlets to be called

### ADR / Standardization process
* SCS-0001: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/Docs/blob/main/Standards/scs-0001-v1-sovereign-cloud-standards.md
    * Bump from Draft to Stabilzed: Timebox, Peergroup?
    * Give one week for feedback, to be reviewed by Product Board (PR @itrich, final call for feedback mail: @garloff)
* SSD Flavor ADR: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/Docs/pull/150
    * Bump from Proposal to Draft: Today?
    	- YES (merge PR: @garloff, number 0100)
    * Bump from Draft to Stabilized: Timebox, Peergroup?
    	- Peergroup includes SCS IaaS operators plus Product Board
    	- Timeline for stabilization: After implementation in ref. impl. (and first rollout)
    	  (Certification requirement will come later, after implementation by operators, cert. tests required for this)



