# 2022-08-29

Participation: @garloff, @tibeer, @fkr

## Agenda

* Moving over to etherpad + minutes format?
  * Will do this!
  * @garloff to move today's minutes into minutes repo
  * Will not move historical information
* SCS participation in GX-Hackathon #5 (Sep 26+27)
  * 30min hack track intro, then own room
  * advice: creates a high-level of visibility, having a room is important
    * get SSIDs working somehow
      * avoid SSID providers becoming gatekeepers
    * SD generators have value
  * <https://gitlab.com/gaia-x/gaia-x-community/gx-hackathon/gx-hackathon-4/-/issues/2>
  * Hands-on session SCS, R3, ... link to Hack#5 topics
    * Join forces with Alina for SSID?
    * AI @garloff: Ask GXFS for OIDC-SSID bridge progress
    * Proposals via PR into G-X gitlab
      * Disk encryption
      * User federation works <====
    * @tibeer to review proposal from @garloff before sending MR
    * @garloff to create user story!
* OSS licensing
  * Mixed repo license
    * SCS/k8s-cluster-api-provider is mixture of (upstream) Apache-2.0 and (own) CC-BY-SA-4.0
    * CC-BY-SA-4.0 is a doc license, not so suitable for (compiled) code, but OK for scripts, yaml config ...
    * CC-BY-SA-4.0 is a (weak) reciprocal license (copyleft), incentivizing back-contribution
    * relicense to clean up?
  * Public preference for copyleft needs rework?
    * No priority
  * Licensing for paid work
    * OSBA owns copyright, pledges to license under OSI
      * pledge to not do dual-licensing games needed?
    * Preexisting work: only accept OSI
      * do we want to prevent dual-licensing (AGPL plus commercial)?
  * \-> discuss in SIG community? SCS project team? Product board?
* Road to R3
  * No contributions to SCS release notes yet ðŸ˜®  
    <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/Docs/blob/feat/RelNotes3/Release-Notes/Release3.md>
    * Itemized lists should not have complete sentences that end with a period.
  * IaaS status
    * good status
      * disk encryption works
      * testbed on 22.04 is prepared, but does not fully work yet, systemd adaptations, broken containerd ...
    * mirroring everything will not happen b/f R3
  * CaaS status
    * upstream improvements and better testing, documentation, ...
    * numerous smaller enhancements outstanding
  * Ops status
    * OVN exporter upstreaming
    * DVR not being supported needs to be documented
  * IAM status
    * User federation will be documented, yeah!
  * PressRelease/Publicity preparation
    * Proabably OK to talk about third provider (WS - final confirmation outstanding) -> Cemil/Pascal
    * Philipp.Fell (@PS) to coordinate joint activities
    * Talk to @CB about OSISM
    * Separate PR around 3 CSPs working together on SCS independent of R3?
      * Feature OpenOps, Federation
      * @ManuelaUr to discuss with Lisa Reisch (OSBA)
