# 2023-03-27

## Participants
* @maxwolfs
* @garloff 
* @itrich
* @fkr
* @maliblatt
* @berendt
* @tbueker
* @alexander-diab

## Agenda
### [PTG](https://openinfra.dev/ptg/) happening, see [schedule](https://ptg.opendev.org/ptg.html)

### R4 release review
* Technical
    * Could have achieved more by more precise alignment
    * Standardization was slower than expected
        * Standardization should be driven by users (DevOps teams)
* Organisational
    * Release Notes a bit late
    * Partners with significant changed very late
        * Do earlier deadlines in the future
* Post-release cleanup work
    * OVN/OvS last minute change may hunt us
        * Access from internal IP to FIP within same (project?router-connected-net?subnet?) does skip SNAT and does not work
        * Needs attention!
        * Bug against osism will be opened today
    * ceph (until June)
        * trust into Quincy needs to be established
        * Operators, OSISM to plan investment into the validation
    * Image-Crawler
        * lobby for upstream support (latest pointer)
    * Custom-CA vs. k8s-cluster-api-provider
    
* General:
    * Keep our eyes open for upstream end-of-maintenance


### R5 planning
* How?
    * R4 outcomes still relevant!
        * Evolution: Identity federation -> focus on k8s layer
* Big planning day Apr 12
    * Use Board to prepare Apr 12 (Miro needed? EI: see below)
        * We have a paid Figma Jam license where (signed) guests can contribute to the board -> eval (@fkr, @garloff, @jschoone)
* How much focus on enabling alternatives (in ref. impl. modules)?
    * yaook
    * Gardener
    * Bare Metal k8s setups (ironic, on-metal, metalstack, metal3 ...)
    * Clarify relationship to ORA - Open Reference Architecture (SAP in IPCEI-CIS)
* Topics:
    * cephfs (-> RWX?)
    * vault
    * k8s on mgmt plane
