# 2023-09-25

## Participants

* @fkr (until 14:20)
* @jschoone
* @batistein
* @frosty-geek
* @garloff
* @fdobrovolny
* @maxwolfs

## Agenda

### New cadence: Every 2wks for Product Board
* Sufficient to align large PB group
* Agreement

### github branch protection
* Currently, every SCS org member can merge into main (with reviews and if there are no open change requests left)
    * All other branches are unprotected but writable by all SCS org members
* Managed by github-manager
* No abuse has been observed yet
* Changes required?
    * Need different policies for code in early development phase and code used in production
        * This does not necessarily require different github rules though
* Conclusion: Current situation is good: No gatekeepers needed, no bottlenecks in "core team" wanted. Expressing the expectation how branches / projects / repos are handled works well, currently.
* Ideas for the future:
    * Require some diversity from the reviewer (different company, ...)
    * No need to change now, maybe if we grow muchg larger and social pressure to behave well becomes low in some corners

### License discussion
* https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/cluster-stack-operator/issues/4
* Recommendation: Stick with Apache-2.0 for cluster-stacks (and other things that very closely interact with CNCF code).
* General direction discussion: Are our AGPL considerations practical?
    * They are and have been applied to the metering and the status page project.
    * The ecosystem into which code needs to fit is an important consideration (thus ASL2 for cluster stacks).
    * We should always document the specific considerations that go into a decision.
    * Blog post or update to license considerations would be useful.
        * Probably we should also talk about Apache-2.0 more, as it covers the majority of our code.
        * TL;DR needed.
* Ultimate decision power for paid development is with OSBA (and OSBA pledges to use an OSI compliant license) according to the contracts (EVB-IT).
* `LICENSE` file should be in each repository.
    * github-manager could check this
* Standards repository
    * no license file exists, probably should be CC-BY-SA 4.0
    * code (tests) under Apache-2.0 and CC-BY-SA 4.0
        * should be unified (CC-BY-SA 4.0)
* Docs repo
    * Documents are und CC-BY-SA 4.0
    * Code under MIT (because it's based on MIT code)
* ToDo: Go through repositories, add proposals (PRs) for a `LICENSE` file, where none exists yet
    * Epic to track this: AI @jschoone

### R5 retro
* Not yet scheduled
* Proposal @frosty-geek: Early November (after the upgrade window), AI @garloff
