# 2023-05-08

## Participants
- @frosty-geek
- @garloff
- @maxwolfs
- @berendt
- @fkr
- @jschoone
- @FriederikeZelke
- @lossack

## Agenda

### OSISM 

#### 4.3.0?
* [Release notes](http://release.osism.tech/notes/4.3.0.html) empty. Until yesterday.
* Should we still update our OvS CVE blog? Yes, @garloff
* The fact that it's the final release and OvS fix should be mentioned. Yes, @berendt
* TODO: Table with active releases:
    * Do on OSISM side @berendt
    * Do on SCS side @FriederikeZelke, @maxwolfs
        * https://scs.community/use/ (or docs.scs.community/XXX after the restructuring)
        * Take example from https://releases.openstack.org
    * scs.community -> docs.scs.community plan: Align in next product board @maxwolfs

#### Ceph Pacific vs. Quincy
* EOL for Pacific is 2023-06-01 (!)
    * https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/releases/index.html
* Yet we still lack stories for work that is TBD for validating Quincy, validating upgrade
    * understaffed
        * VP03 not yet assigned
        * try to use support from OSISM and wavecon
    * extended maintenance - critical bugs traditionally still are addressed for a few more months
* Need create a plan to address this:
    * 42on and Paul advice to not do the switch yet
        * Should understand what is the reason behind the advice! -> What bugs?
* SCS CSPs can not wait due to security requirements
    * CSP to move forward to Quincy?
        * Playbooks exist to move
        * Need to build trust in Quincy (analyze bugs, test, try to fix, ...)
    * Get official statement from ceph w.r.t. later EOL
    * Get someone else to promise security fixes
* Plan:
    * Get advice on Quincy from experts
        * Paul, 42on, wavecon (Christian, Jeff)
        * Set up: @garloff/fkr
    * Need to invest to resolve Quincy (or evergreen Pacific - NO!)
        * VP03
    * Seek contact into ceph community
        * EOL Jun 1, @fkr, https://ceph.io/en/community/connect/

#### Airgapped
* Topic was split into two epics before R4, as only one was completable in time
* The piece that was pushed to R5 is currently not proceeding
    * @tibeer blocked, waiting for testbed merges by @osfrickler
    * proxy has whitelist for URLs, updating ...
    * PR: 
    * Goal: May
    * Not yet a fully airgapped solution, as (filtering) proxy does still use upstream sources

---

### Partial stacks with lower infra req. (from SIG Community)

* Getting momentum with app devs, potential SCS contributors can be difficult, as not everyone has access to a full SCS environment
* Address this by
    * easily providing test/demo access (PS already does help us here)
    * build low-resource-req. partial stacks, e.g. testbed, cloud-in-a-box, kind capi provider
        * maintain officially from SCS project (goal: 90+% SCS compatibility, reuse as much as we can, so contributions, bug reports have a high likelihood of being meaningful, apps developed against non-defined system behavior have a good chance, ...)
    * keep focus on productive DC deployment (CSP, internal IT) as primary SCS use case

### 15:05 Flavor naming and standard flavors discussion

### Sven (Syself) will participate from next monday
