# 2023-11-20

## Participants

* @scoopex
* @maxwolfs
* @batistein
* @fkr
* @matofeder
* @berendt
* @FriederikeZelke
* @alexander-diab
* @matfechner
* @jschoone (from 14:15)

## Agenda

### Value Proposition CiaB

Recently, @scoopex has realized the following functions, among others:

* Log file for the installation with final status
* The Cloud-In-A-Box repository and its branch can be specified as kernel parameters
* Any network interface can now be used
* General stabilizations to reduce the susceptibility to errors
* Documentation for users

Value Proposition:

* CiaB is not for any kind of production usage because it is not designed to be reliable and secure (predefined accounts, certificates, clustering, ...). Therefore we currently don't want to enhance CiaB in that areas.
* It is often one of the scenarios through which new(!) prospects get to know SCS because there is documentation for it and you can use it without any contacts to the projects. From this point of view, we should make sure that no bad impression is created because of occasional stability problems.
* It is used by externals to have a minimal "cloud" experimentation environment
* ....


Questions we could discuss for the further development:

* Do we want to introduce automated and periodic testing of the installation process? (probably also the upgrades)
* Do we want to create and use infrastructure tests to check basic functions on the completed installation?
* Are there functions that are currently missing on the CiaB? (What is currently not included of the SCS stack? But should be included?)


### OpenStack SLURP Releases

* We will be doing every OpenStack release.

### Testing schedule R6 IaaS Reference Implementation

* First round of images that contain Bobcat are anticipated to be available after christmas break

### Fix R6 date

* 20th or 27th or March?
* 20th it is.
* 11 people in the room, one will write a blogpost on the selected date ;) _AI_: @matofeder
