# 2023-02-27
## Participants
 * @garloff
 * @fkr
 * @berendt
 * @alexander-diab
 * @maxwolfs
 * @frosty-geek
### Excused:
 * @jschoone

## Agenda

### Update from SINC discussion (@alexander-diab)

* Setting up SCS on their hardware
    * They seem to be determined to get this working
* Lacking *lots of* documentation
* Sharing Unhappiness on documentation (OpenStack, OSISM, SCS, k8s-capi)
* @jschoone taking the lead on addressing this
    * User journey that works without high-touch exchange with us

### Towards R4 release

* Again trouble with SIG releasse date on Wed 14:05 (due to Hackathon travel)
* Where to discuss relevant things? Here and today?

* Technical work close to being finalized
    * OSISM: Air-gapped install needed for R4 (focus)
        * Installation of manager and all nodes (IaaS) without live access to the internet
        * Relevant for enterprise, needed for many partners (e.g. TSI)
    * Messaging: How air-gapped is this really?
        * Mirror infrastructure is the first step, close to completion
        * Installation from it
        * Updates from it
        * Some customers might have the VMware definition in mind
        * Let's make sure we explain what we support and what not!
    * KaaS: Version updates
        * Current cilium has beta version implementation of gateway API
        * Access controls kube-api ...
    * Image-Manager: Image crawling?
        * Gonicus? inovex supporting OSISM?
    * IAM: Waiting for upstream
    * Ops: Status page and cloudmon are all WIP, not ready for R4


* Coordinating the work for messaging
    * High level messaging -> draft it from the 2023-02-13 discussion?
        * What's missing?
    * Release Notes drafting: Who?
        * @fkr to create doc. to be filled collaboratively (github)
    * Press release drafting: Who?
    * Highlights from upstream projects will be reflected again

### Reference implementation IaaS and its relevance to SCS

SDS in Ref.Impl. is implemented with ceph. So does everyone need to do ceph for IaaS compliance? -> NO
* Confusing information?


"Optional standard" is confusing.
-> Maybe just position "IaaS" and "KaaS" SCS-compatible as things that can be fulfilled indepedently -> yes

Visualize this in hackathon (laed @maxwolfs): https://input.scs.community/scs-community-hackathon-2023?view#Interactive-Overview-for-SCS-Standards--Architecture


