# 2023-02-20

## Participants

* @fkr
* @itrich
* @berendt
* @jschoone
* @maxwolfs
* @frosty-geek
* @alexander-diab

## Agenda

### Reference implementation IaaS and its relevance to SCS

* need to make sure we communicate properly what are the requirements to run

* what is a reference implementation?
* what is our reference implementation?

* @alexander-diab says we're not precise in our messaging what is our product
* @berendt advocates for assuring that it is possible to have several ways within the reference implementation to have as backing storage 
* @jschoone says not mention explicit technologies for certain, non required parts
* is the question what exactly is our product?

* AI @fkr: to make sure this discussed in a timely manor in this round including @garloff!


### Howto handle feature requests

Example: zun
https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/360
* providers/users are able to enable feature themselves from upstream kolla-ansible
* good place to discuss these items are in the product board
* important part of the discussion is the efforts that will be triggered by maintaining the feature longterm
  * example: "non-mandatory" images vs openstack services - both generate maintainence efforts, just on different levels


### Release Preps

* Schedule Release SIG
  * @berendt says it was concluded to use the same slot as before. Wednesday 1400 CET/CEST
  * AI @fkr: schedule calendar item

* When and where to announce targeted release date
  * this week in the community call is the proposal
    * AI @alexander-diab: please make sure this happens

* CAPI Versions for the R4
  * follow same pattern as for R3
  
* QA for CAPI images
  * good item to be integrated by gonicus with the SCS zuul
  * we need to solve this midterm

* Look at current open items
  * AI @fkr: start document for release notes in branch
  * OSISM: https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/448


### Versioning within the documentation
* It is possible, but should it be done?
* SIG Docs thinks no, because of DX, see: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/sig-documentation/20230220.md?plain=1#L28
* What are considerations within the product board, as we should have a common approach/decision?
* => We don't need versioning on SCS Release level
