# 2023-06-19

## Participants
* @maxwolfs
* @garloff
* @batistein
* @jschoone
* @lossack
* @berendt
* @frosty-geek

## Agenda

### 5.2.0 (ceph update to Quincy) still on track?
* 5.2.0-pre has been cut and deployed at PS-test and gx-scs?
    * 5.2.0-pre has been released
    * upgrade to PS staging underway, dev next then gx-scs
        * Docu improved along the way, restart added to client

### When will we get access to zuul?
* Do we need to set hard deadlines to enforce visibility?
* https://zuul.scs.community ("thisisunsafe")
* Will ask Gonicus, @garloff, @fkr

### Diagrams / Design Papers / ... for cluster stacks wanted
* Avoiding a disconnect between the great ideas and our ability to understand/review/implement them
    * https://excalidraw.com/#room=7cea05547dd0a9429842,Mvn16Kv1FueoxmjBfsn-YA
* Cluster-Stack definitions are being defined this week
* Design documents are being written ... (@batistein)

### Maintenance releases
* We do 5.1, 5.2, ... with OSISM
    * Consumed by all SCS IaaS providers (as far as we know)
* We have slowly evolving maintained/v5.x and v5.0.x branches for k8s-cluster-api-provider (with bug- and security fixes and patch-level updates/bugfixes imported from upstream) -- and in the case of v5.x selected fully-backwards-compatible and safe minor features.
    * Consumed at least by @flyersa for his customers
* Does this need alignment? More communication?
    * TODO: Document release and maintenance process, create overview page over releases/branches and display change log. 
      docs.scs.community -> document IaaS and KaaS entry points along with policies, releases, ... (@jschoone, @maxwolfs, @garloff)