# 2023-06-12

## Participants
* @garloff
* @maxwolfs
* @alexander-diab
* @frosty-geek
* @berendt
* @fkr
* @lossack
* @jschoone

## Agenda

### Standardization: Flavor v3, IaaS Compatible v3
* PR [standards/#306](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/306)
* Two many concurrent versions valid at the same time is confusing
    * Should we force the migration within 6 weeks? (like the upgrade to the release)
        * YES
    * Retire v2 early
* Different viewpoints
    * High-level view:
        * Is compliant: YES/NO?
    * Low-level view:
        * What versions, what layers/tracks?
    * => SIG standardization (+@maxwolfs)

### Standardization: Dealing with extensions
* Test tool wanted ... ?
    * Reporting (warnings) about usage of non-standardized features, e.g. optional flavors, CNI-specific features, ...
    * Add to VP 10-3 ???
        * -> Continue discussion next week
* More specialization ahead (e.g. compute flavors) beyond general purpose
    * Is welcome!
    * Should be brought back into SCS standardization discussions, so we identify things that can/should be standardized (as mandatory or as recommended)
        * Not everything will be ...


### Quincy upgrade
* In plan?
    * Upgrade tests in regio.cloud
        * Strange ansible problems -> debugging session -> CEPH_VERSION environment conflicting with playbook
        * Validator now tests for this
* CI [issues/#525](https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/525)
    * Work done, needs merge and setting checkmark

### Preparing 5.2.0
* 5.2.0a not yet cut
    * To update OpenStack images or not?
    * Script collecting ChangeLog to inform discussion
        * -> ChangeLog
    * DECISION: We want the updates from the OpenStack stable branches, as this improves our quality (and reduces security risks)

### R5 progress
* Should we schedule a mid-term review?
    * In the teams, share high-level result in PB
        * Add to R5 outcomes blog post?
        * Expectation setting

### Velocity vs. discussions
* Material for 2hrs discussions for Team IaaS ...
    * Many contributors :thumbsup:
    * Change approach by taking things outside to avoid 1hr team meet becoming a bottleneck
        * Prepare in smaller groups / SIG
        * So these are well-prepared when dealt with in team meet
