# 2024-01-15

## Participants
- @matofeder
- @scoopex
- @maxwolfs
- @janiskemper
- @frosty-geek
- @jschoone
- @berendt
- @bitkeks
- @fkr
- @matfechner
- @garloff
- @ignatov17

## Agenda

### RELENG R6 (@fkr)

#### SIG Release again?

- or POs and partners managing it, reporting directly to product board?
- No SIG Release this time, but ...

*Suggested structure for RELENG @ PB*

- What is available to be tested
- Outcomes of tests in the last two weeks
- What needs love in the next two weeks
- Release Notes - Current state
    - WIP PR: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/release-notes/pull/16
    - Branch: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/release-notes/tree/feat/r6
- Breakouts are scheduled as needed in addition (like TaskForce "get XYZ working and tested")

#### SCS IaaS Reference Implementation

- Bobcat testing status?
    - CI job (upgrade/deploy) probably online this week
- Other big ticket items?
    - ProxySQL migration: https://github.com/osism/testbed/pull/1990 (not really a big one)
        - opt-in
    - Infra k8s (k3s on management and/or control plane)
        - Deploy manifests (using ansible, not yet helm)
        - nginx as test deployment
        - meant for CSPs to introduce extra services
    - rabbitmq improvements (quorum queues)
        - including migration
        - more robustness improvements
        - https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/821
    - domain manager role
        - opt-in for now, documented
        - working with upstream
- First testing images available when?
    - Already online (used in testbed)
- Scope of automated tests
    - stable
        - deploy testbed
        - upgrade testbed
    - rolling tag
        - dito: deploy+upgrade testbed
    - RefStack used for testing (one removed, Swift)
    - Not yet: SCS-IaaS compatible
    - Not: OpenStack Health Mon (would need fixing)
    - Test playbook to spawn an instance
    - Additional: Manual tests
- Manual tests wanted in the next 2 weeks?
    - Not yet, wait for first RC in 2 early Feb
    - Should gx-scs (SCS-1) be upgraded often? When?
        - First Dev Env
        - Then Stage Env
        - Then SCS-1 (traditionally done after release, target before R6 this time)
        - Depends on amount of manual work
            - Config repo changes can not be fully automated b/c they are individual
            - Process should run with a few commands
- CiaB vs Testbed images
    - CiaB defaults to stable
    - Testbed defaults to rolling images (stable images can be chosen, but testbed config repos might not always work well with them)
    - PS wants a testbed-like setup (with several nodes, vitrualized) with support for stable
    - or a CiaB that's closer to the CSP use-case (multi-node?) and easier to do automated testing with (virtualized option)
    - => followup in IaaS team
    - => document this
        - https://osism.github.io/docs/guides/deploy-guide/examples/cloud-in-a-box

#### SCS KaaS Reference Implementation
- MVP0 of CSPO merged
    - Official cluster stack for OpenStack being developed currently (with CNI add-on)
- Scope of tests?
    - Test deployment of CSPO

#### Big topics of other teams
- keycloak on k3s

### Zuul testing (@garloff)

- Now monitored and kept green
- Understand our current coverage
    - Areas of needed investment?

### SCS Compliance (@fkr)

- 2022.11 lists Swift - how do we deal with this and clouds that only do Ceph RGW?
    - "OpenStack Powerwed Compute" vs "OpenStack Powered Platform"
        - SCS only references "OpenStack Powered Compute" as SCS-compatible IaaS compliance requirement, "OpenStackPowered Compute" does *not* include "OpenStack Powered Storage" (which is swift), only "OpenStack Powered Platform" requires both.
        - SCS requires S3 compatible object storage, but only recommends to support SWIFT APIs (and does not require to meet OpenStack Powered Guidelines for those)
- Getting "OpenStack Powered Storage" or "Platform" not feasible with ceph rgw:
    - there is (only) one swift-related Refstack test failing (and not doable): https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/32 (https://tracker.ceph.com/issues/10664)
    - The "OpenStack Powered" guidelines have "designated code sections", where they write that you really have to use Swift code (don't find it at the moment) -- this can obviously not be fulfilled with ceph rgw
