## 2023-01-13
Participants:
* @matfechner
* @horazont
* @fkr
* @frosty-geek


### Recap from the kickoff

> We will look into the following topics:
>  - Finding security and compliance relevant events in OpenStack services
>  - Providing project-related events to users
>  - Figure out how we can consoldiate such events with non-OpenStack sources, e.g. PaaS or KaaS services, for integration with broader platforms. 

General consensus that we should work on a conceptual level for now, as nobody can allocate resources for it.
SCS target release is R5 (next plus one).


Who is the audience?

* just the operator?
* or end customer?
-> 2 scopes "just the operator" + a sub-set for the "user"

### Project-related events for users

- Can we, with OpenStack tools, provide the information to users?
- Stackit would integrate that into their existing self-service portal
  - Data would have to be delivered from OpenStack
  - Viewer is separate from the data source, definitely, as it has to integrate with the other services
- Plusserver: Gather log events from normal audit logging and redistribute the events from there
- Do we want push or pull?

- Can we bolt this onto the Metering? The approaches could be similar: pull events out of rabbitmq, filter, and push them somewhere in $realtime, reconile with stuff.

- Differences:
    - Audit logs may be more than metering events (e.g. instance migration)
    - Different retention times for audit vs. billing events
    - Can we store it sensibly?
