# SCS Tech Weekly 2022-12-22

## Meta

- Minutes: Jonas

Apparently, the note from last week about that being the last community call was wrong. We're having another one, yay!

(But this is truly the last one for this year, pinky-promise!)

### New member dNation

dNation won a tender and is welcomed in this community call, represented by Martin Pilka, Matej Feder and Roman Hros.

## Project updates

### Team IaaS

Minutes: Not available (yet?)

- Deployment environment validations
- OpenStack image manager
- Cloud in a Box
- Benchmark results encrypted vs. plaintext ceph (will be presented in January)
- OpenStack flavor manager

  - Conformance tests should be moved out of that

### Team Container

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/pull/130

- Standardisation of Kubernetes features (storage, LB, Network policies)
  - Corresponding implementation changes
- Outlook to 2023
  - More standards
  - Kubernetes-as-a-Service self descriptions

### Team Ops IAM

Cancelled.

### Community SIG

Minutes: Not available yet.

- Upcoming hackathon, save-the-date will come soon
- Discussed current state of the website and upcoming docs.scs.community
- Want single entrypoint for documentation

## AOB

## Project Updates

**NB:** This section will only contain the minutes on things which are not explicitly mentioned in the corresponding slides. In addition, things which are being repeated (such as job offers) in meetings will may not be repeated in the minutes.

### Community

- New youtube channel: https://youtube.com/@sovereigncloudstack

### ECO:Digit

- OSBA is applying (together with partners (Gesellschaft for Informatik, Ökoinstitut, ..)), in the context of the SCS project, for subsidy by the ministry of economic affairs
- Focus of that project is the ecological impact of software usage on a variety of platforms
- Central device will manage deployment of a thing and measurement of the ecological impact
- Starting approximately in May 2023

### Hiring

- We'll have a new product owner soon
