# SCS Tech Weekly 2022-08-04

## Meta

- Minutes: Jonas

**As of the 4th of August, 2022, minutes to this meeting are available at https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/tree/community-call/**

## Team Updates

General note: 

Kurt proposed to record design discussion results should be documented in a (to be defined) standardised format, including the considerations which led up to the decision.

As there was no disagreement from the teams, Kurt will take care of providing a template and venue to handle these documents.

### Team IaaS

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/iaas/20220801.md

- Sprint review:

  - Disk encryption mostly done, blogpost upcoming
  - Confidential computing: RAM is blocked in customs
  - Preparing upgrade path to Yoga, testing IPv6
  - Looking into Ansible 6 and Ubuntu 22.04 LTS

- Cloud in a box expired

  - Decision on whether to take it or to look at other things pending

- Trying to get stuff done before R3
- Octavia debugging
- Deep dive discussion about (ansible/logical) roles in OSISM / SCS IaaS

### Team Container

Minutes still pending: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/tree/main/container

Two key questions:

- Who are we addressing with our KaaS offering?

  - To providers, to empower them to provide mk8s to cutsomers
  - To customers, who don't need *managed* k8s and want self-service clusters

  Difference is which role is responsible for managing the clusters.

  Primary focus: Providers to empower them to provide mk8s, but likely still usable for the second part.

- What kind of API do we want to offer?

  - Kubernetes API: downside: needs a cluster
  - Custom REST API: downside: needs to be done

  Follow-up list discussion.

### Team Operations and IAM

Minutes still pending: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/tree/main/ops-iam

- Reminder for release R3 in eight weeks (see Release SIG below)
- IAM and Federation work
- OTC CloudMon
- Status page requirements are being moved to Git (from NextCloud) so that we can use that as a measurement
- OVN exporter will be prioritized for R3

### Community SIG

No meeting this week.

Results from last week have been collected in a GitHub discussion item: https://github.com/orgs/SovereignCloudStack/discussions/142

### Standardisation SIG

Deep dive on infrastructure (IaaS) standards.

- Small round (advertisment not loud enough?)
- Looked at existing baseline from OpenStack -> want to require that from SCS providers
- Image metadata standard: Agreement on the current document
- Flavor standard: good, but needs improvement

  - Want to provide a list of recommended flavors, to improve interoperability
  - Recommend providers to not include every addon in the flavor name if it's still unique -> avoid huge zoo of flavors

- Availability zone standard

  - Agreement on the baseline that separate AZs must have some significant independence so that availability is increased
  - No requirement on which particular components need to be redundant
  - Will define how this information is going to be made transparent

Next week: normal Standardisation SIG meeting, the week thereafter (likely) KaaS deep-dive

### IAM SIG

Will continue the work on Testbed Federation next week.

### Monitoring SIG

Discussed audit logging some more.

Meta-note:

- August 5th will be held by Matthias
- August 12th will be cancelled
- August 19th will be held by Jonas

### Release SIG

NextCloud poll available for finding a weekly slot until R3: https://scs.sovereignit.de/nextcloud/apps/polls/vote/47

### Open Hacking Session

Meeting with the OTC folks again regarding cloudmon.

- Long discussion on how it'll be used: monitoring across cloud providers etc.
- Centralized monitoring infrastructure by the OSBA potentially, but no HA guarantees or anything (no operations team in the OSBA)
- Can the OSBA outsource this to one of the community members?

### Open Operations Manifesto

Felix, Eduard and Jonas met last week to work on that.

There's a repository and GitHub discussion: https://github.com/orgs/SovereignCloudStack/discussions/126

## AOB

### Mailing list archives

- SCS-Tech mailing list archives not publicly available

  - Would like to have that published, but we can't easily do this retroactively
  - Might be addressed when moving to our own Mailman infrastructure

## Project Updates

**NB:** This section will only contain the minutes on things which are not explicitly mentioned in the corresponding slides. In addition, things which are being repeated (such as job offers) in meetings will may not be repeated in the minutes.

### Tender news

- Lot 10-3 and 6c ended, received several offers
- Lot 13 prepared, will hopefully be confirmed by the OSBA soon; may go public end of next week.
