# SCS Tech Weekly 2022-12-01

## Meta

* Minutes: Max

## Team Updates

### Team IaaS

[Minutes](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/iaas/20221130.md)

* Sprint review and some issues
* Tidy up mandatory images and meta information
* Future talks about CI
* Documentation issues on image manager are coming along
* Lighting talk about confidential computing in the planning
* Discussion of State of "cloud in the box"
* SOS reporting validation is ongoing
* Airgap installation discussion is ongoing
* Discussion on Ceph performance with encryption and not
* Mission statement is on the way

## Team Container

[Minutes](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/container/20221128.md)

* Clean up of the plusserver setup
* Talk about Sprint updates
* Discussion about Local storage ADR
* Further standardization was also about storage classes
* Decision on discussion this month of various storage classes
* Discussion of support of community version. What timeline can be enforced regarding providers
* Discussion on Feature gates
* Metric server optional or opt-out

### Team Operations and IAM

[Minutes](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/ops-iam/20221124.md)

* Discussion on automations of cloud mon
* Topic about swift endpoint that is needed for cloud mon. Felix and Benjamin work on that. Currently cloud-mon needs and api endpoint for swift to store logs. Next week updates about this
* OpenStack cli with federation support. Device flow auth. There is progress and implementation been done but not yet tested

## IAM SIG

[Minutes](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/sig-iam/20221111.md)

* Discussion about citadel vs key cloak
* Discussion about auth2 authorization flow

## Monitoring SIG

Will happen tomorrow

## Documentation SIG

[Minutes](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/sig-documentation/20221128.md)

* Missions statement
* Discussion Docs styleguide
* Discussion about listing rules and email obfuscation

## Standardisation SIG

Did not happen because of meeting with potential scs provider.

## Overflow slot

* Discussion Session 15:05 CET next Monday
* Deep Dive: k8s on the management plane

## Lightning talk

Nothing happening this or next week

## Organizational

### Standardization

* SCS-0001 is now stabilized
* Major improvement change result in new versions, smaller ones will be merged
* PR#150: Flavors with local SSDs - please comment and approve
* PR#148: Mechanics to specify certification requirements - feedback welcome

### Community

* Save the date: SCS Summit will happen from 23-24 May 2023 in Berlin
* Feedback form from Hackathon in Cologne
* Youtube Videos published from Lighting Talk from Intel SGX
* GX-SCS PlusServer test will have a cleanup - save your setup if you need to

### Gaia-X

* Self description workshop was happening where Felix and Kurt attended
* Has evolved a bit since half a year go
* There are no major changes though
* The gx-self-descipton-generator within SCS GitHub has now to be adjusted

## New Sig Market

* New group starting on 5th December 2022 11:05 CET
* Every four weeks
* Topics: "Who else uses SCS?" and "Can I safely invest in this technology?"
* Discusissing: Strategic conferences and ongoing activities about potential partners
* Everyone is invited to participate

## Adoption / Outreach / Org

* FOSDEM Sovereign Cloud DevRoom
* English Admin Mag articles on OpenStack and on SCS
* Gaia-X Hackathon #6 will be an on-site event in late March 2023, probably in the week 2023-03-20 — 24

## tenders

* VP09c (Pentesting): Published on DTVP 2022-11-02, Offer deadline: 08.12.2022
* Please spread the word and reach out to your InfoSec network/community!
* VP06c: Here we are waiting for the ministry to release the money. I hope that the contract can be awarded this year.
* VP13: The documentation is ready and is now with the Executive Board of the OSBA for decision-making. After that, * the Ministry must also release the funds. The contract may be awarded at the end of December or January.
VP10-3, VP05 and VP06a: Under evaluation

## Procurement

* “Cloud in a box” was enabled by the SCS Hackathon in Cologne and is working well
* Wip on Outbound network access on the virtual machine
