# SCS Tech Weekly 2022-12-08

## Team Updates

### Team IaaS (Sprint review and planning)
* Test setup with multiple Keycloaks
* Validation limited to ceph clusters deployed by OSISM
* image-manager documentation proceeding
* image-crawler can crawl three image at the moment. Needs to be integrated with image-manager
* SOS-report functionality on hold at the moment
* Benchmarks to determine overhead of disk encryption in ceph
* Wiping data from local disks needs work (currently used lvremove is insufficient)
* Cloud-in-a-box node image works well
    
Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/iaas/20221207.md

### Team Container (Sprint review and planning)
* Local storage ADR was merged
    * Test cases for loadbalancer behavior
    * Tests should be added to a test collection
* Needs some research on appropriate test suites
* Next:  ADR on loadbalancer behavior and what needs to be changed in the reference implementation
* PRs open in k8s-cluster-api implementation on the latest k8s patch updates - review wanted
* ADR on k8s update policy needed
* Next weeks: Additional storage classes discussion on 2022-12-19

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/container/20221205.md

**No team meeting on 2022-12-12!**

### Team Ops, IAM (Sprint review and planning)

* Review of work happening on device-authorization grant by @reqa
    * PoC works, yeah!
    * Work happening to bring this upstream
* @joshmue presented the current state of the status-page application
    * Knowledge and current state needs to be captured and added to the documentation
* Discussion on proceedings of cloudmon
    * Regular open hack session on cloudmon starting next year plannend by @fkr 

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/ops-iam/20221208.md

### SIG IAM
* Hack session on device-authorization grant
* @zitadel will join on 2022-12-09

### SIG Monitoring
* Discussion on the current complexity of cloudmon
  * Entry point / barrier to start needs to be lowered

### SIG Market
Kick-off of new SIG Market. @alexander-diab presented some initial slides and started the discussion on how to proceed:
* Discussions around "When can a PoC be considered successful?"
* Discussion on the value proposition of SCS and that we need to continue working on communicating this out loud
* High demand on a certification program

Very good feedback on this new SIG. Schedule and meeting slot will be reviewed.

### SIG Standardization
@alexander-diab presented his current understanding of a certification program and raised several questions.
* In a first step, we'll have a "self-service" certification program that can be completed via a given toolsuite
* Discussion about versioning/life-cycle of certification levels. 
* Closer look at https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/Docs/pull/148

Minutes: not present yet

### Overflow Slot (k8s on the management plane)
Discussion on deploying a k8s cluster on top of the management plane that can host additional applications/services. Everybody agreed that this is a good idea. Additional discussion on how this can be achieved/implemented (e.g. via k3s, minikube, etc.)

## Standardization
* SCS-0001 stabilized on 2022-11-28
* Please review https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/Docs/pull/148
* Several open issues to write decision records. Please contribute to these tasks! See https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues

## Community
* SCS Hackathon #2 planned for early March 2023
* gx-scs has been cleaned up and will be hopefully be available again next week.

## Events
* FOSDEM Sovereign Cloud DevRoom CfP ends tomorrow! Please contribute: https://lists.fosdem.org/pipermail/fosdem/2022q4/003475.html

## Tenders and procurement
* Tender VP06c has been awarded to dNation
* VP13 will likely be awarded in the middle of January
* VP09c was closed today with several offers

## AOB
* Wavecon ssh failures finally resolved
* Nomination for OIF board will close on 2022-12-16.
* CfP for OIF Summit is open and looking for contributions
