# SCS Tech Weekly 2023-04-27

## Meta

Minutes: @matofeder

## Team updates

### Team IaaS

Minutes: <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/iaas/20230426.md> (waiting to be merged)

- When and where to discuss flavor-naming?
    - [Discussion doc](https://input.scs.community/Why-Standardized-Flavors-And-Names)   
    -  Will be finalized on May 8 overflow slot
- A bunch of epics and stories will be outlined
    - k8s on management plane (k3s?), Baremetal provisoning, Shared Filesystem
- Ongoing progress has been reported on multiple ADRs
- Sprint starts next week 

### Team Container

Minutes: <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/container/20230424.md> (waiting to be merged)

- Welcome new participants
    - Toni Finger, Hannes Baum from C&H
    - Martin Dahl (Cleura)
- Review of in progress issues
   - Stabilized ADR for load-balancers
   - Certificate rotation - robably move to "B" sprint 
   - Container registry
       - Re-deployment and data migration - done  
       - Blog article will be writen 
       - We will use this instance as Mirror for CAPI container images
   - Update to latest k8s versions, occm versions - PR
   - Support custom CA in k8s-capi
   - CSI volume snapshots bug in k8s-capi
   - We except Gateway API to stabilize on october 

### Team Ops

Minutes: <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/ops/20230427.md>

- Zuul CI infrastructure will be ready soon
  - Need to discuss use-cases, workflows, processes
- Major meeting topic: 
  - R5 planning 
    - SCS Zuul used by teams
    - Status page
    - Monitoring
    - User experience - how can user interact with SCS via CLI or API?
 
### Team IAM

Minutes: <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/iam/20230426.md> (waiting to be merged)

- Exploring connecting k8s IAM to IdP
    - Learning sessions (Jan, Joshua , Avid)
- Two CAs in testbed 
    - It is OSISM bug 
    - Workaround is available 
- Ongoing issues:
    - mod_auth2 - config change needed for Zed; PR is open
    - Apache reload always restart Keystone container => ~2s downtime
       - Team looks for solution
    - standardization 
       - keycloak ADR update
       - convert plusserver proposal about group naming convention into ADR

## Hacking session
- Guided/proposed by Tim 
- Demonstrator for interoperability between clouds 
- Non-technical discussions:
    - requirements 
    - use-cases
    - what customers want
- Technical discussions:
    - requirements for moving workload between OpenStack clouds
    - technical PoC draft 
  
## ALASCA tech talk #4 
- dNation (Martin, Matej) presented dNation infrastructure migration to CAPI
    - Materials (slides, YouTube link) will be shared once available

## AOB
- SCS Summit - 23.-24.May
- EF event in Brussels on Tuesday
    - Market desirable and needs 
    - Panel on technical interoperability 
- Events:
    - Dataport - 4.May
        - We won't have a presentation there, sadly  
    - GAIA-X hackathon - 3.-4.May
        - We have a proposal - Extension on SD generator
        - Largest Hackathon session is ours: 12 registered participants
        - Max will be (physically) in Bilbao, rest of us online
    - Cloud expo - 10.-11.May
        -  Join SCS panel - 11.May 12:55 â€“ 13:40 pm


## SCS Market Adoption

- No news today

## Long-term sustainability of SCS

- Workshop in Vienna in progress today, i.e. details next week, today we have no news

## Community tools

- New visual presentation of calendar 
    - https://docs.scs.community/community/calendar/
    - Both calendars (old, new) are working and are set to the same source
