---
title: SCS Community Call
type: slide
tags: presentation
slideOptions:
  theme: white
  transition: 'slide'
  parallaxBackgroundSize: '1920px 1080px'
  parallaxBackgroundImage: 'https://input.scs.community/uploads/7938ad7c-e76e-48bd-9b3c-427a79909bca.png'
---

<style>
    .slides h1 {
        font-size: 36px;
        font-family: lato;
        color: "#50c3a5";
    }
    .slides h2 {
        font-size: 26px;
        font-family: lato;
        color: "#0f5fe1";
    }
    .slides h3, .slides h4 {
        font-size: 24px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides li {
        font-size: 18px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides p {
        font-size: 18px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
</style>

<!-- .slide: data-background="https://input.scs.community/uploads/b1c72e1d-a18f-428b-943c-d7d8a9e872cb.jpg" -->
# <font color="#50c3a5">Sovereign</font> <font color="#0f5fe1">Cloud Stack</font>
## <font color="#7D7D82">One platform â€“ standardized, built and operated by many.</font>

---

<!-- .slide: data-background="https://input.scs.community/uploads/b1c72e1d-a18f-428b-943c-d7d8a9e872cb.jpg" -->
## <font color="#0f5fe1">SCS Community Call</font>
### <font color="#7D7D82" size=12px>2023-12-07</font>

---

# Welcome Regina Metz!

* `metz@osb-alliance.com`, `@regina_metz:matrix.to`
* [Public Outreach Manager](https://staging.scs.community/website/jobs/public-outreach)

---

# Welcome ... 

anyone else fresh here?

---

# Updates from the Teams

---

# Team IaaS

We build the reference implementation of the IaaS parts of SCS that informs and adheres to the SCS IaaS standards.

----

# Team IaaS

* OpenStack Bobcat (2023.2) release finalized
* various upstream images are unmaintained and to be removed, notably senlin and swift
* OSISM Release 6.0.2 finalised
* stay tuned for the upcoming blog post

----

# Team IaaS

* we will recommend the linux kernel series used for testing, not special patch releases
* lots of work in progress for VP4
* SDN scalability: blog post, bug fixes, configuration
* Encryption: support Redis cache backend, MariaDB with TLS

----

# Team IaaS

* work on the DomainManager role will be continued by @josephineSei in 2024
* Upstreaming is in progress
* standardization work for DomainManager saw small improvements

---

# Team IAM

The Team IAM deals with topics around Identity and Access Management.

Users that access cloud and container infrastructure need to authenticate themselves and then authorizations to see and access resources from the infrastructure are derived from the identity of the users as they belong to groups and are roles are assigned to them (or the groups they belong to). SCS wants users to be managed across layers of the stack and across providers to allow for federation.

Authentication and Authorization are important topics for the security of a platform. We deal with those here, but currently also the broader topics around security / penetration testing. (Findings may need to be discussed and addressed in other teams.)

----

# Team IAM/Sec

* PenTesting ongoing
* OpenSearch Open Redirect -> Will be reported upstream
* Upcoming security advisory for intel reptar and AMD cachewarp issues

----

# Team IAM/Roles

* Josephine to take over from Markus
* Domain-Manager role work:
    * `GET v3/domains` protection from others: Patch in review upstream
    * Work on ovtavia and horizon to complete role
* Generic roles: admin, domain-manager, (project-)manager, member, reader (in line with but extending [upstream](https://governance.openstack.org/tc/goals/selected/consistent-and-secure-rbac.html))

----

# Team IAM/IAM

* Keycloak 23.0.1 container image available in SCS registry
    * manually built (for now), look into zuul
    * keeping it up2date (dependabot?)
* Documentation [#119](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/docs/pull/119)
* Non-default domain for federated users in upstream review [#405](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/405)

---

# Team Ops

We build tooling and infrastructure design for easy, efficient and transparent ways to operate an SCS Cloud.

----

# Team Ops

**Status-Page**
- An update from the team regarding the ongoing progress on the deployment of the status page and frontend development
- Next steps: organize the docs in status-page-api repository into shape for docs.scs.community

----

# Team Ops

**Observability KaaS & IaaS**
- [ADR](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/394) for KaaS Observability Architecture and MVP-0
- [Blog post](https://scs.community/tech/2023/12/06/mvp-monitoring/) covering the MVP-0 has been published
- Next steps: first, stabilize the Observer, and then use it to monitor SCS services

----

# Team Ops

**Zuul**
- The Matrix chat report template has been improved several times since the initial deployment of the Zuul MQTT->Matrix bridge
- If you're interested in viewing (well-formatted) SCS Zuul reports, then subscribe to the [SCS | Zuul Reports](https://matrix.to/#/#scs-zuul-reports:matrix.org) Matrix room

---

# Team Container

----

# Team Container

**Cluster Stacks status**
* [Milestone 8](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/milestone/8) with epics for OpenStack integration created
* [cluster-stack-provider-openstack](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/cluster-stack-provider-openstack) repository prepared by syself

----

# Team Container

**Cluster Stack demo**
* Work as expected, checkout [cluster-stacks-demo](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/cluster-stacks-demo)
* Discussion about further collaboration on OpenStack integration between B1, syself, dNation

---

# SIG Community

* Changing "Developer" to "Contributor" in the community section of the documentation
* Cloud resources and github stays in the community section
* Hacking session tomorrow
 
    * finalizing the texts for the community pages

---

# SIG Central API

* General discussion about tradeoffs regarding levels of abstraction
* How to actually setup central-api?
    * Decided to sketch installation process as documentation
    * First draft result: [PR by joshmue](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/central-api/pull/3)

---

# Open Door Sessions

* Beginning in January felix will offer a weekly open door session
* This session is dedicated to Operators (even weeks) and Integrators (odd weeks) in order to facilitate various product feedback
* Thursdays 12:05 CET/CEST

---

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/1b319533-5f21-4ed4-88da-bf97a9172f5d.jpg)

