---
title: SCS Community Call
type: slide
tags: presentation
slideOptions:
  theme: white
  transition: 'slide'
  parallaxBackgroundImage: 'https://input.scs.community/uploads/7938ad7c-e76e-48bd-9b3c-427a79909bca.png'
  
---

<style>
    h1,h2,h3,h4 {
        font-size: 20px;
    }
    p, li {
        font-size: 16px;
    }
</style>

<!-- .slide: data-background="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/44/Zentrum_Jenas_im_Tal_2008-05-24.JPG" -->
# Sovereign Cloud Stack
## One platform – standardized, built and operated by many.
# SCS Community Call

---

# Any newcomers?


---

# Updates from the Teams

---

# Team IaaS

> We build the reference implementation of the IaaS parts of SCS that informs and adheres to the SCS IaaS standards.

----

## Standards and PRs
- Flavor names
- Image Standard
- Volume types

----

## Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?

Finalisation: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/319

----

## What was relevant for R5?

I found out that IPv6 is upstream documented for R5.
https://docs.openstack.org/neutron-dynamic-routing/latest/install/usecase-ipv6.html

---

# Team IAM

----

# Team IAM
## Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?

Gap between Upstream/Testbed work and OSISM production status

----

# Team IAM
## Any relevant news?

First results from pentesting

----

# Team IAM
## What was relevant for R5?

Document the federation objectives, and the features already on the release.

---

# Team Ops

> We build tooling and infrastructure design for easy, efficient and transparent ways to operate an SCS Cloud.

----

# Team Ops
## Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?

Work on the Observability for the Container Layer for Cloud Operators continues
* Gonicus and dNation will discuss on how their Monitoring Stack can be used

----

# Team Ops
## Any important decisions that are going to be taken?

Status Page Test deployment will be done in GX-SCS

----

# Team Ops
## What was relevant for R5?

Most discussed items are relevant for R6, Status Page Frontend, Observability and the Central API

---

# Team Container

----

## Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?
* R5 Release Notes :notebook:
* Besides new features :gift: we'll put the newest versions of all components to the release


----

## Any important decisions that are going to be taken?
* The E2E pipelines need to run on SCS Zuul

----

## What was relevant for R5?
* Everything!

----

## Anything else important?
* Issues with Gateway API deployment
    * Cilium Pod in CrashLoopBackOff state
    * Good chances to be fixed for R5


---

# SIG Community
Minutes from the SIG: https://input.scs.community/2023-scs-sig-community
![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/141063c5-8a41-4d8c-9c56-97282ef58f78.jpg)

----

# SIG Community

## Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?
* resuscitation of the "Friday Hacking Sessions" - we have always topics to work on together
* team and SIG description on the docs page as well as our values and code of conduct

----

# SIG Community
## Any important decisions that are going to be taken?
* have "lessons learned" and technical blog posts also at the docs pages

---

# SIG Central API MVP

----

# SIG Central API MVP
## Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?

Discussed with Syself on details how Kubernetes cluster are created and how the Central API use the refrence implementation

----

# SIG Central API MVP
## Any important decisions that are going to be taken?

* To have a more detailed look on the Container Reference Implementation and continue the discussion on the next SIG Meeting
* Want a label for GitHub issues related to the Central API
* Use the Minihackathon Matrix Channel for Discussions

---

# Zuul for SCS

- Very good overview given by dNation on e2e
- Matrix-Room to coordinate efforts

---

# SIG Release

----

# SIG Release
## Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?

[R5 highlights](https://input.scs.community/2023-scs-r5-highlights-collection#) collection.

----

# SIG Release
## Any important decisions that are going to be taken?

Schedule for Release Candidates: CWK36 with RC for OSISM-6.0.0a and
k8s-cluster-api-provider. Getting as much testing as possible.

----

# SIG Release
## What was relevant for R5?

Finishing work for R5 (with focus on highlights).


---

# R5 ahead - 2023-09-20
* SIG Release (Thu 14:05 CEST)
* Completing features  
  * K8s e2e testing (with zuul)
* Standardization set v4 and standards tests
  * Preview available?

---

# Last Call: Get up your butts
* Sign up for your participation at our sport event this year! [here](https://scs.sovereignit.de/nextcloud/apps/forms/tBpJLwaArj4eRHpt)
* Find all information [here](https://scs.community/2023/07/05/sport-event/)
* You want to become a sponsor? Reach out to: zelke@osb-alliance.com

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/424c27ce-50df-438b-99ea-359b41765c17.png)

---

# Tenders
* VP04 (Network Technology): Decision of the Executive Board has been made. Now release of the money by the BMWK.
* VP18 (Hardware, Colocation, Maintenance): OSBA Executive Board has decided. The release of the funds has been applied for at the BMWK.
* VP03 (storage technology): Evaluation of the offers
* VP09b (supply chain sec): Evaluation of the offers
* VP12 (health monitoring): The offer period ended the day before yesterday. There are offers that we are now evaluating.
* VP 09a (sec) are being prepared.
* Next: VP06b (mesh): Preparation will start soon.

---

# Upcoming Events - catch us if you can
* OCP Experience Center Berlin Opening Conference – Berlin, 5.9.2023, Maria and Manuela will have a talk about SCS and ECO:DIGIT
* GXFS Connect – Berlin, 5.-6.9.2023, Friederike and Alex will have a pitch about SCS as important part of XFSC (X-Federation Service Components)
* Container Days – Hamburg, 11.-12.9.2023, Jan will participate in the conference
* artcodix – SCS Launch Event, Rosenheim, 12.9.2023
* StackConf – Berlin, 13-14.9.2023, Friederike participating

---

# Upcoming Events - catch us if you can

* C4DT Conference on Trustworthy and Sovereign Cloud Computing – Lausanne, 13.09.2023, Manuela will talk about SCS Open Source and Open Operations Solutions
* PlusCon – Köln, 26/27.9.2023, Kurt will participate in two panels about the importance of open source and SCS as part of Gaia-X
* EclipseCon – Ludwigsburg, 16.-19.10.2023, Sven and Jan will talk about SCS ClusterStacks, Alex will present on SCS

---

# Join the Open Operations Movement

* every four weeks we meet to share our operational knowledge
* next time: Monday 2023-09-04 at 15:05 CEST via https://conf.scs.koeln:8443/Open-Operations
* we typically provide a presentation with ample time for discussion and free time for topics from the members - questions, best practices, failure, solutions...

https://www.meetup.com/open-operations-meetup/

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/ed42483e-8453-497d-a39f-7d99885f4c70.png)

---

# **Join the SCS Project Team @ OSBA**

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/73b648ae-dac7-488d-b201-f26718e50687.png)
