# SCS Tech Weekly 2023-03-16

## Meta

- Minutes: Jonas

## Team updates

### Team IaaS

Minutes: none yet

Housekeeping: Sprints are not aligned, teams will be aligned with the container sprint starting next week.

Sprint review + planning:

* rgw validator moved to R5
* Cloud-in-a-Box mostly done, only minor release note fixes
* Random number generator ADR: ready to merge
* Metrics collection ADR: will be iterated upon and discussed next week
* Flavor naming discussion:
  - Kurt prepared an extensive document
  - Lack of time -> postponed the discussion to a later to-be-defined slot
* Call to read the release notes for R4

### Team Container

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/container/20230313.md

* Finish stuff up for R4
* [Registry ADR](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/212), please provide input

### Team Ops

Minutes: (not yet)

* Status page ADR
* Zuul for SCS
* SIG Monitoring tomorrow will be used to work on the user stories / epics
* Status Page not in R4, but will be presented as WIP

### Team IAM & IAM Hacking Session

Minutes: (none yet)

* Authorization flow
* Zitadel evaluation continuation; challenges found, working with the Zitadel folks
* Connect Keystone to OIDC

### SIG Community

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/sig-community/20230323.md

* Community hackathon recap
* Action items for the next hackathon
* Blog post will be written

### SIG Release

Minutes: (none yet)

* Release note review
* Need more work
* Contacted operators running SCS to discuss upgrade plans

### AOB 

## Project Updates

**NB:** This section will only contain the minutes on things which are not explicitly mentioned in the corresponding slides. In addition, things which are being repeated (such as job offers) in meetings will may not be repeated in the minutes.
