# SCS Tech Weekly 2023-04-20

## Meta

- Minutes: Jonas

## Community Manager switchover

- Goodbye Eduard, welcome Friederike Zelke!

## Team updates

- We have a new sprint naming scheme: We will have alphabetic naming, the first one being "Amsterdam". Those will be in sync across the teams.

### Team IaaS

Minutes: None yet

- Planning and discussion of retro outcomes
- Introduced text-based daily meeting in the #scs channel on the OFTC IRC network
- Infrastructure control plane (OSISM manager stuff) shall be moved into k8s infrastructure
- Following the Team Container sprint naming

### Team Container

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/container/20230417.md

- Planning and retro outcome discussion
- Defined name for this sprint: "Amsterdam"
- Defined epics for R5
- Make use of Cluster API cluster classes to make service meshness of a cluster configurable

### Team Ops

Minutes: None yet

- Following the Team Container sprint naming
- Sprint review & planning
  - MVP-2 of the status page
  - Zuul for SCS epic
  - Note: work on CloudMon will become part of a tender package

### Team IAM & IAM Hacking Session

Minutes: None yet

- Discussed kubernetes connection to the IdP
- Automation of onboarding of new customers to OpenStack

### SIG Documentation

Minutes: None yet

- R5 outcome workshops from IaaS and Container pushed documentation topics
- Focus on improving on what we have already
- Discussed a survey to gather documentation expectations
- https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/docs-page/pull/69: add an OpenAI prompt trained on SCS docs

### SIG Standardisation & Certification

Minutes: None yet

- Kicked off the participation of Cloud&Heat + SecuStack consortium on certification
- Lots of planning and discussion around the future of the certification tooling

### Open Operations

Minutes: None yet

- Want to re-gain momentum with the initiative
- Gather supporters, potentially even outside the IT sector
- Work on providing resources and examples and such

### AOB

## Project Updates

**NB:** This section will only contain the minutes on things which are not explicitly mentioned in the corresponding slides. In addition, things which are being repeated (such as job offers) in meetings will may not be repeated in the minutes.

### Releases

- There will be blog posts on the handling of the issues which were discovered during the rollout of R5
- We want to make more OSISM releases; at least in June there will be a release which provides Ceph Quincy (as Pacific goes EOL)
- We patched the OpenvSwitch Remote DoS CVE in another point release, there will be a blogpost about that.

### Long-term sustainability workshop

- Workshop on April 14th
- Work on how to save the SCS project into a new entity once the OSBA hosting and funding via BMWK runs out.
- Potentially there will be a commercial entity next to a non-profit entity
