# SCS Tech Weekly 2023-07-06

## Meta

- Minutes: Matej

### Introduction of new Members

- Welcome Nadja
  - Researcher - Open Source Governance

## Team updates

### Team Container

- The last call was short and without agenda, because of the non-working infrastructure
- Syself will broadcast (via mailing list) a discussion about the ClusterStack project which will happen next team container call
- dNation reported progress since the last team container call
  - New container registry mirrors (e.g. gitlab, github)  have been set up in the reference deployment of SCS container registry
  - KaaS dependencies upgrades continue

### Team IaaS

- Standard images
  - PR Image Metadata Standard - ready for review
  - Decision to drop Alma 8/9, CentOS 8
- OpenStack image manager
  - Image Definitions
    - Decision to split Image Definition from OpenStack Image Manager Code (already in progress)
      - Image Definitions grouped by environments (e.g. mandatory, recommended, etc.)
  - BSI C5 issue
    - Customer needs to be able to choose available images
      - Dedicated session to discuss this has been aligned 
  - Decision to add guide for getting started with initial rollout using OpenStack Image Manager and Flavor Manager 
- SSD flavor standardisation
  - SSD flavours will be standardized and will be mandatory as KaaS needs SSD flavors,
  because of ETCD (have a reasonable performance on it)
- Overflow Slot will happen on Monday - July 10th
  - Some unfinished business from team meeting will continue there

### Team IAM

- The last call was short because of vacations
- Adding realms requires container restarts
  - PR for related logout issue with proxy realms
- PS domain/groups/projects/roles creation
  - AI: Adding notes regarding Federation (OIDC/Keycloak) and mapping
- Multivalue mapping into OpenStack
  - Discussion on how to proceed (patch OpenStack or patch mod_auth_oidc)

### Team Ops

- Zuul
  - Discussion about rights management in Zuul
    - Public SCS Zuul vs. SCS Zuul only for SCS GitHub Org.
      - Currently, it is sufficient to have it enabled for SCS GitHub Org.
  - UI presentation
- License for Status Page Application
  - MIT for OpenAPI Spec
  - AGPLv3 for StatusPage implementation
- There won't be a OPS call next week 

### SIG Community

- Pools available - please vote and help us to decide the following:
  - New date for SIG Documentation and Community
    - Vote: https://scs.sovereignit.de/nextcloud/apps/polls/s/xMAyTwbgitdbZTtO
  - Sport activity (competition)
    - The team with the most kilometers wins
    - This will be a sponsored event â€“ so every kilometer counts
    - The money we collect with our sport event we want to donate to a social digitization project
    - Vote: https://scs.sovereignit.de/nextcloud/apps/forms/tBpJLwaArj4eRHpt
  - Project we donate the collected money from sport activity
    - Vote: https://scs.sovereignit.de/nextcloud/apps/polls/s/ptvcZeIOyhAZa4yA
  
## Project Updates

### Tenders

- VP06a-2 (Container Network Integration, Container Storage Integration)
  - The contract will be awarded tomorrow
- VP12 (health monitoring)
  - Will go out to tender next week

### Hackathons

- No news

### Project connected with SCS

- ECO:DIGIT
  - OSBA Project Lead for ECO:DIGIT: Maria Bauer
  - Maria presented the aim and the focus of project
    - Monitor and show resource consumption, show users real metrics 

## Lightning Talk Today

- No Lightning Talk today
