# SCS Tech Weekly 2023-06-15

## Meta

- Minutes: Jan

## Team updates

### Team Container

- Registry
  - Pull rate limits needs to be done by the reverse proxy as Harbor currently doesn't support that
  - dNation deployed an SCS Harbor for there own company
  - in progress is the option to deploy Harbor in our reference implementation
- Cluster Stacks
  - first version of Cluster Stacks will be available this sprint
  - operator will follow later
- Standard: Networking/CNI
  - we will replace Calico with Cilium as default CNI in our reference implementation
  - since almost every CNI has specific features we need and will create an ADR on our Networking decisions

### Team IaaS

- ADR on virtio-rng finished
- Health Monitor for LB with OVN provider not fixed
  - we won't expect fix in near future
- Ceilometer HTTP webhook JSON format will be used
  - needs to be documented
- Support flavor name aliases
  - effort needs to be taken upstream
  - we try to get it to Release Bobcat but will more likely in C (name not known yet)
- SSH flavor names stabilized
- Upgrade path for Ceph Pacific to Quincy
  - REGIO cloud already migrated
  - Docs left
- AirGap
  - Aptly finished with caveats
    - can't be tested due to resource limits
- No time left for discussion topics

### Team Ops

- Status Page
  - definition for write operations merged
  - work on status page server generation from OpenAPI
- Zuul
  - migration of GitHub Actions to Zuul
    - generally working
    - conceptual challenges
  - compliance checks using Zuul currently not useful
- OpenInfra Compliance Checks
  - Refstack server should run in a container instead ov a virtual env
- Container Layer Monitoring Survey
  - three answers
  - open until next week

### Team IAM

- Re-configuring keystone OIDC federation for additional customer realms
  - It's possible now to login to Horizon with E-Mail address where keycloak detects the Realm using the domain
  - Logout now possible yet
- ADR on IdP features
  - mostly keycloak vs. zitadel
- ADR on how PlusServer uses domains/groups/projects/roles in OpenStack
- Use s256 instead of plain as code exchange method for PKCE

### SIG Documentation

- Documentation of standards
  - collected a lot of questions
  - also discussed in SIG Standardization
- There is a survey ongoing
  - currently 26 answers
- Requests for Upgrade Guides
  - currently hidden in the release notes
  - would be better to be more visible in Docs

### Open Operations

- External people from Operate First join and inspire the meeting
- What we want to achieve
  - Fill this with life
  - Try to live that
  - Try to implement that
  - Do that for a while and come back
- Discussion on the format of meeting
  - two opinions
    - Barcamp/Lean coffee
    - Prepared speakers report about specific incidents

### SIG Standardization

- Visualization of compliance wanted
  - first version exists, still WIP

## Project Updates

### SCS Summit

- Event was great
- SCS Summit 2024 on May 14-15!

### Tenders

- Three tenders in progress in different stages

### Hackathons

- Mini-hackathon 2023-07-18 in Arnsberg near Dortmund about a Central API at Gonicus
- Next hackathon 2023-11-08 in Dresden at Cloud&Heat Technologies GmbH, Königsbrücker Str. 96/Halle 15, 01099 Dresden
