---
title: SCS Community Call
type: slide
tags: presentation
slideOptions:
  theme: white
  transition: 'slide'
  parallaxBackgroundSize: '1920px 1080px'
  parallaxBackgroundImage: 'https://input.scs.community/uploads/7938ad7c-e76e-48bd-9b3c-427a79909bca.png'
---

<style>
    .slides h1 {
        font-size: 40px;
        font-family: lato;
        color: "#50c3a5";
    }
    .slides h2 {
        font-size: 28px;
        font-family: lato;
        color: "#0f5fe1";
    }
    .slides h3, .slides h4 {
        font-size: 24px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides li {
        font-size: 18px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides p {
        font-size: 18px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
</style>


# <font color="#50c3a5">Sovereign</font> <font color="#0f5fe1">Cloud Stack</font>
## <font color="#7D7D82">One platform – standardized, built and operated by many.</font>
![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/ae08f067-a645-4372-ae3b-09da1eee6808.jpg)

---

## <font color="#0f5fe1">SCS Community Call</font>
### <font color="#7D7D82" size=12px>2023-10-12</font>

---

# Updates from the Teams

---

# Team IaaS

We build the reference implementation of the IaaS parts of SCS that informs and adheres to the SCS IaaS standards.

----

## Topics

* Welcoming new colleagues working on VP04
* Kicking of the work on VP04
* Review Retro

----

## Kicking of VP04

- SDN all the things
- Encryption east-west
- Inter-Cloud Connectivity

----

## New Matrix room

- #scs-iaas:matrix.org


----

# Team IAM

The Team IAM deals with topics around Identity and Access Management.

----

### Domain Manager standard draft

Proposal: SCS should standardize roles and role permissions in an SCS environment

### Pentesting

External pentesting on testbed almost finished. Internal are ongoing.
To Do: Create security advisory for discovered vulnerabilities

---

# Team Ops

We build tooling and infrastructure design for easy, efficient and transparent ways to operate an SCS Cloud.

----

# Team Ops
## Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?

- We talked about the proposal for transmitting notifications of build failures from Zuul to our Matrix chat

----

# Team Ops
## Any important decisions that are going to be taken?

- We have decided to utilize Zuul's MQTT reporter and relay messages from this reporter through the MQTT/Matrix daemon to the Matrix chat
- Later, after implementing the observability stack, we can revisit this solution and consider utilizing a reporting approach based on metrics

---

# Team Container

----

# Team Container
## Reorganize Standards Epic
- Categorized and priorized standards we want to define
- Much better overview now

----

# Team Container
## Cleanup k8s-cluster-api-provider issues
- Closed many issues to have a good overview of work which should still be finished in this repo
- Decided to add a stale bot to label and close inactive issues automatically

----

# Team Container
## Progress on Cluster Stacks
- Cluster Stack Operator now has a working tilt environment which can be used for tests

----

# Team Container
## Migration to ClusterClass
- as we were unsure if we will actually want to do this, we now decided to do this

---

# SIG Community
In this meeting we develop the community strategy and organize work for community collaboration.

----

Intens discussion about our Code of Conduct, specific descriptions and terms (not finished yet): https://input.scs.community/2023-scs-sig-community#

---

# Upcoming Events - meet us where you can!
* EclipseCon – Ludwigsburg, 16.-19.10.2023, Sven and Jan will talk about SCS ClusterStacks, Alex will present on SCS with Huawei
* Kickoff Event of the German "GreenTech Innovation Competition" by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action - Berlin, 19.10.2023, Maria, Dirk, Friederike will attend and introduce ECO:DIGIT 
* Mercedes Benz Foss Convention - Stuttgart, 7.-8.11.2023, Kurt and Alex will present SCS there with a talk
* Smart Country Convention - Berlin, 7-9.11.2023, Manuela will attend a panel discussion about open source and sovereignty

----

* Open Source Day - Berlin, 16.11.2023, members meeting of the Open Source Business Alliance and conference about Open Source, we will present our future vision of SCS
* it.emsland - Lingen, 23.11.2023, SCS, Hochschule Osnabrück and the IT Zentrum are inviting local SMEs to learn and talk about the advantages of digital sovereignty
* OpenInfra Day Germany and SCS Summit - Berlin, 14./15. May 2024 https://superuser.openinfra.dev/articles/openinfra-event-strategy-update/


---

## Third Community Hackathon
Registration: https://events.scs.community/hackathon-3/
 
![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/a0e1d7be-25d7-4907-923e-f8c7c039a74d.png)

----

SIG Community 2023-10-23 - join to add and discuss topics!

https://input.scs.community/Third-Community-Hackathon---SCS#

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/96561603-acec-47c2-856c-1bc47a8dd69a.jpg)


---

# ITZB tender

* 410M€ tender from ITZ Bund (data center from the German federal government) for 5yrs of an open source managed on-prem cloud: https://www.service.bund.de/IMPORTE/Ausschreibungen/eVergabe/539333.html?type=0&type=0
* Please talk to SCS project leadership if you are participating with an SCS based offering and want to ensure that we can back things that you plan to do

---

# **Join the SCS Project Team @ OSBA**

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/73b648ae-dac7-488d-b201-f26718e50687.png)

---
