# SCS Tech Weekly 2023-02-23

## Meta

- Minutes: Jonas

## Team updates

### Team IaaS

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/iaas/20230222.md

- Refinement and progress discussion of ongoing things
- Focus on upcoming R4
- Flavor naming concept conflict (OpenShift putting flavors into annotations)
- Include nameserver in OSISM
- Magnum Cluster-API based driver

#### Overflow slot appointment

- Discussed open issues for the upcoming release
- OpenStack image manager will be continued in the scope of already running tenders (VP01, VP06d)

### Team Container

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/container/20230220.md

- Discuss issues with new cluster API images based on Ubuntu 22.04
  - dNation did deep investigation and filed a bug upstream
- Registry
  - Currently Harbor seems to be the favorite
  - A use case could be CSPs want to offer the registry as-a-service, therefore Keppel could be a good alternative, but didn't pass the OSS Health Check
  - ADR needed for deployment method
- OSS health check requires a lot of manual effort
  - want to investigate automation tools like CHAOSS
    - one of the founders will do a lightning talk on March 30
- Team IAM asks for requirements from container layer on the IdP Broker
  in lack of experience the topic has been moved to the IAM meeting to think on this in general


### Team Ops

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/ops/20230223.md

- Report on the MVP-2 of the Status Page application

### Team IAM & IAM Hacking Session

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/iam/20230222.md

- Kubernetes requirements for IdP / IAM
  - Discussion on the way how container services are provided to customers (managed vs. self-serviced)
  - Post-meeting discussion in Matrix led to a Hackerthon item for this
- Hacking session: Zitadel integration with the testbed

### SIG Monitoring

Minutes: (none yet)

- Had a look at Karma (alert manager frontend)
- Side-discussion on licensing (AGPL)
- Another side-discussion about Time Series Databases and how they work

Next session will be the Audit Logging Breakout again.

### SIG Documentation

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/sig-documentation/20230220.md

- Discussion on docs versioning
  - There won't be any, always built from main
- Some structural and design changes

### SIG Market

Minutes: (none yet)

- Discussion/revisitation of adoption strategy
- Public messaging, targeted vs. broad

### AOB

## Project Updates

**NB:** This section will only contain the minutes on things which are not explicitly mentioned in the corresponding slides. In addition, things which are being repeated (such as job offers) in meetings will may not be repeated in the minutes.

### Events

#### SCS summit

- Announcement email at latest next week with more details of the event schedule

### HedgeDoc

- Using HedgeDoc for collaborative minute editing in the future
- Final minutes will still be in GitHub
