# SCS Tech Weekly 2023-01-19

## Meta

- Minutes: Jonas

## Security Advisory VMDK Image Processing

See https://scs.community/security/2023/01/24/cve-2022-47951/

There will be a blogpost which describes the hard choices which had to be made and how they were made.

## Team updates

### Team IaaS

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/iaas/20230125.md

- Discussion of the CVE handling
- Layer 3 load-balancing
- Storage classes for CaaS

### Team Container

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/container/20230123.md

- Supported k8s version ADR
- Load balancer discussion continuation (see also team IaaS)
- Progress of the reference implementation

### Team Ops

Minutes: not yet

- Current state of cloud mon
- Zuul: looked at OSISM playbooks+roles for deploying Zuul, but will also look at the k8s operator
- Status page: ADR for the choice
- OpenStack consistency check tooling (e.g. OVS flows vs. neutron; running VMs vs. nova; etc.)
- Discussed mysterious container behaviour (looked like some local fs corruption); such issues should go into the OSISM tracker as soon as possible so that they can be debugged while the thing is still broken to collect diagnostics.

### Team IAM

Minutes: not yet

(Reminder: Forked out of Team Ops, now at Wednesdays 12:05 -- 12:55 Europe/Berlin)

- Cleaned the board
- Thoughts:
  - Connecting keycloak with kubernetes
  - PoC with ZITADEL
- Write ADR for identity provider
- @reqa and @JuanPTM will take part in the PTG

#### IAM Hacking Session

- Zitadel participation

### SIG Monitoring

- SIG Monitoring was decided hibernate because of lack of topics
- Buuut this monday the observability topic for the container layer has re-emerged
- Note: this friday will have audit logging breakout session, next week will then the CaaS observability
- @mpilka from dNation will join, they're working on monitoring things in the k8s context

### SIG Documentation

- Small round
- Post-migration cleanup
- Improvement discussions (presentation of the glossary etc.)

### SIG Standardisation & Certification

- Checked open pull requests on standards
- Some people will be reached out to by @itrich ... :-)

### AOB

## Project Updates

**NB:** This section will only contain the minutes on things which are not explicitly mentioned in the corresponding slides. In addition, things which are being repeated (such as job offers) in meetings will may not be repeated in the minutes.

