---
title: SCS Community Call
type: slide
tags: presentation
slideOptions:
  theme: white
  transition: 'slide'
  parallaxBackgroundImage: 'https://input.scs.community/uploads/7938ad7c-e76e-48bd-9b3c-427a79909bca.png'
  
---

<style>
    h1 {
        font-size: 48px;
        font-family: lato;
        color: "#50c3a5";
    }
    h2 {
        font-size: 42px;
        font-family: lato;
        color: "#0f5fe1";
    }
    h3,h4 {
        font-size: 36px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    p, li {
        font-size: 32px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
</style>

<!-- .slide: data-background="https://input.scs.community/uploads/e3646866-ea52-4c4e-bfb7-dda8eefe37dc.jpg" -->
# <font color="#50c3a5">Sovereign</font> <font color="#0f5fe1">Cloud Stack</font>
## <font color="#7D7D82">One platform – standardized, built and operated by many.</font>
## <font color="#0f5fe1">SCS Community Call</font>
### <font color="#7D7D82" size=12px>2023-09-07</font>

---

# Any newcomers?


---

# Updates from the Teams

---

# Team IaaS

> We build the reference implementation of the IaaS parts of SCS that informs and adheres to the SCS IaaS standards.

---

# Metering

- Finalisation of VP13
- Technical Preview in R5
- Time to give it a spin

---

## Standards and PRs
- #319 merged!

---

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/98a715dc-fb94-46d2-948d-40fdf4fee42c.jpg)

---

# Call for Action

- Review: [Standardize image names and source URLs](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/314)
- Review: [Document volume type decisions](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/323)

---

## R5 highlights?

OpenStack 2023.1 (Antelope), Ceph Quincy, Metering Service (Technical Preview), Kubernetes for the Management & Control Plane, Kubernetes CAPI Magnum Plugin, Scaphandre Prometheus Exporter, Role for tuned to optimize system profiles, new day 2 operations tool: openstack-resource-manager (osismclient CLI integration open), OVN + OVN sources builds (OVN: 23.06.1, OVS: 3.2.0), WIP: bare metal without PXE (not yet integrated), IPv6 east-west and north-south (@osfrickler)

---

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/c5c7fb5e-cc3f-4ece-a7bb-1679df07768f.png)


---

## Jokes aside

* OSISM 6.0.0a being rolled
* Will also be available as CiaB for tests

---

# Team IAM

----

# Team IAM
## Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?

Gap between Upstream/Testbed work and OSISM production status

----

# Team IAM
## Any relevant news?

First results from pentesting

----

# Team IAM
## What was relevant for R5?

Document the federation objectives, and the features already on the release.

---

# Team Ops

> We build tooling and infrastructure design for easy, efficient and transparent ways to operate an SCS Cloud.

----

# Team Ops
## Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?

* Status Page
    * First Image now in the SCS Harbor Instance
    * Tests will be done on a Kubernetes Cluster deployed with Ref. Impl.

* Zuul: Debugging Session tomorrow


----

# Team Ops
## Any important decisions that are going to be taken?

* Observability for KaaS will be discussed next week in SIG Monitoring

----

# Team Ops
## What was relevant for R5?

* Fixing the current issues with the SCS Zuul

---

# Team Container

----

## Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?
- We will have a Release Candidate this evening :rocket: 


----

## Anything else important?
- Currently blocked due to the not working SCS Zuul :x: 
- NODE_FAILURE

----

## What was relevant for R5?
Again, everything. And now we need to test this `everything` thing.


---

# SIG Documentation

## Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?
* Migration of /docs-page to /docs repo complete :fireworks: 
* Report and discussion with @alexander-diab on sig-certification and standardization
* artcodix will provide hardware deployment example after their release

----

# SIG Documentation
## Any important decisions that are going to be taken?
* Not this week

---

# SIG Central API MVP
* Not this week

---

# Zuul for SCS

- Very good overview given by dNation on e2e
- Matrix-Room to coordinate efforts

---

# SIG Standardization / Certfication


----

# SIG Standardization / Certfication
## Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?

----

# SIG Standardization / Certfication
## Any important decisions that are going to be taken?

----

# SIG Standardization / Certfication
## What was relevant for R5?


---

# R5 ahead - 2023-09-20
* OSISM-5.3.0 released (last R4.x) 2023-09-03
* OSISM-6.0.0a (first RC) EOB today
* k8s-cluster-api-provider will be tagged today
    * lots of PRs tested and merged
* *PLEASE TEST*
* [R5 Highlights](https://input.scs.community/2023-scs-r5-highlights-collection)

---

# Sport´s ahead


![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/e2c59fe6-1961-4aaa-a351-de9fad8d63b8.jpg)

----

* During next week starting with Saturday (2023-09-09 - 15) we have our sport event!
* Three teams will compete: Team Sovereignty, Team Collaboration and Team Transparency in four sport types: running, cycling, swimming and hiking.
* Thanks to our sponsor this year: dNation! 
* The money will be spend for this social project: https://www.redi-school.org/

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/8f53702a-4aef-43c6-8d3d-168c2a5c43d4.png)



---

# Tenders
* VP04 (Network Technology): Decision of the Executive Board has been made. NWaiting for release of the funds by the BMWK.
* VP18 (Hardware, Colocation, Maintenance): Waiting for the release of the funds by BMWK.
* VP03 (storage technology): Evaluation of the offers
* VP09b (supply chain sec): :-( Will likely need to be tendered again
* VP12 (health monitoring): The offer period ended the day before yesterday. There are offers that we are now evaluating.
* VP 09a (sec): waiting for OSBA board approval b/f publication.
* VP06b (mesh): dito.

---

# Events - catch us if you can
* OCP Experience Center Berlin Opening 5.9.2023 with Manuela and Maria
* GXFS Connect 5.-6.09. with Alex and Friederike
* Container Days – Hamburg, 11.-12.9.2023, Jan will participate in the conference
* artcodix – SCS Launch Event, Rosenheim, 12.9.2023
* StackConf – Berlin, 13-14.9.2023, Friederike participating, Kurt presenting (B1)
* C4DT Conference on Trustworthy and Sovereign Cloud Computing – Lausanne, 13.09.2023, Manuela will talk about SCS Open Source and Open Operations Solutions
* PaaS Mini-Hackathon hosted by Stackxperts, 5th of October 2023

---

# Upcoming Events - second page

* PlusCon – Köln, 26/27.9.2023, Kurt will participate in two panels about the importance of open source and SCS as part of Gaia-X
* PaaS Mini Hackathon
* EclipseCon – Ludwigsburg, 16.-19.10.2023, Sven and Jan will talk about SCS ClusterStacks, Alex will present on SCS
* Forum Digitale Technologien - Berlin, 19.10.2023, Maria, Dirk, Friederike will attend and introduce ECO:DIGIT 
* SCS Hackathon @ Cloud&Heat - Dresden 08.112023 - Register: zelke@osb-alliance.com
* Open Source Day - Berlin, 16.11.2923, members meeting of the Open Source Business Alliance and conference about Open Source, we will present our future vision of SCS 

---

# Join the Open Operations Movement

* every four weeks we meet to share our operational knowledge
* first event on Monday 2023-09-04 at 15:00 CEST was successful 
* next time Monday 2023-10-02 at 15 CEST!
* we typically provide a presentation with ample time for discussion and free time for topics from the members - questions, best practices, failure, solutions...

https://www.meetup.com/open-operations-meetup/

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/ed42483e-8453-497d-a39f-7d99885f4c70.png)

---

# **Join the SCS Project Team @ OSBA**

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/73b648ae-dac7-488d-b201-f26718e50687.png)

