# SCS Tech Weekly 2023-03-30

## Meta

- Minutes: Jonas

## Team updates

### Team IaaS

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/iaas/20230329.md

- Discussed network-related issues in R4 as discovered when upgrading from R3
  - Version update has fixed that \o/
  - We will address that in a point release of the OSISM part of SCS

### Team Container

Minutes: None

- Retro
  - The team found some action items for themselves
    - Reduce number of reviewers requested on issues to avoid responsibility diffusion
    - Lightning Talk on standardisation flow in order to speed things up
    - Follow-up topic: CaaS sometimes gets into OpenStack discussions, and that is an issue for those who are not running OpenStack
    - End-to-end tests for k8s cluster API
  - Nice things we have
    - Hackathons!
    - Cluster API provider improvements!
    - Releasing on time!
    - Prioritsation, fast responses, good communication
    - Standardisation progress

### Team Ops

Minutes: None yet

- Status page
- Gather requirements from CSPs on what is needed for viable container monitoring

### Team IAM & IAM Hacking Session

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/iam/20230329.md

- Report from OpenStack PTGs
- Discussion of the SCS vision regarding IAM: Zitadel vs. Keycloak, what is needed for Zitadel with Keystone?

### SIG Market

Reminder of the changes already last week (more focused meetings on specific topics instead of the weekly meeting).

### SIG Standardisation & Certification

Minutes: 

- Welcomed Anja from C&H
- Will separate compliance checks for different versions (e.g. flavor naming)
- Standards section of the docs page is now live: https://docs.scs.community/standards

### AOB

## Project Updates

**NB:** This section will only contain the minutes on things which are not explicitly mentioned in the corresponding slides. In addition, things which are being repeated (such as job offers) in meetings will may not be repeated in the minutes.
