---
title: SCS Community Call
type: slide
tags: presentation
slideOptions:
  theme: white
  transition: 'slide'
  parallaxBackgroundSize: '1920px 1080px'
  parallaxBackgroundImage: 'https://input.scs.community/uploads/7938ad7c-e76e-48bd-9b3c-427a79909bca.png'
---

<style>
    .slides h1 {
        font-size: 36px;
        font-family: lato;
        color: "#50c3a5";
    }
    .slides h2 {
        font-size: 26px;
        font-family: lato;
        color: "#0f5fe1";
    }
    .slides h3, .slides h4 {
        font-size: 24px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides li {
        font-size: 18px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides p {
        font-size: 18px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
</style>

<!-- .slide: data-background="https://input.scs.community/uploads/b1c72e1d-a18f-428b-943c-d7d8a9e872cb.jpg" -->
# <font color="#50c3a5">Sovereign</font> <font color="#0f5fe1">Cloud Stack</font>
## <font color="#7D7D82">One platform – standardized, built and operated by many.</font>

---

<!-- .slide: data-background="https://input.scs.community/uploads/b1c72e1d-a18f-428b-943c-d7d8a9e872cb.jpg" -->
## <font color="#0f5fe1">SCS Community Call</font>
### <font color="#7D7D82" size=12px>2023-11-30</font>

---

# Updates from the Teams

---

# Team IaaS

We build the reference implementation of the IaaS parts of SCS that informs and adheres to the SCS IaaS standards.

----

# Team IaaS

- regular sprint review/planning
- no one volunteered to report here - please see minutes

---

# Team IAM

* Documentation about federation for operators
* Progress on the upstream patch for Keystone
* Keycloak overlay image, initial version 

---

# Team IAM

Security Report

* Testbed security analisys from a low privileg user
* Open Redirect Security Advisory


---

# Team Ops

We build tooling and infrastructure design for easy, efficient and transparent ways to operate an SCS Cloud.

----

# Team Ops
## Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?

- KaaS Observability for CSPs MVP-0 now ready to be tested, MVP-1 planning will begin
- Status Page example deployment manifests for KinD are ready; Will also include a docker-compose file
- Zuul MQTT2Matrix Bridge is installed and can be used, see [#scs-zuul-reports](https://matrix.to/#/#scs-zuul-reports:matrix.org) Channel

---

# Team Container

###  available now:
- documentation for Cluster Stack Operator
- KaaS monitoring MVP

----

# Team Container
### Cluster Stack OpenStack Integration

- joint effort of multiple teams
- tasks available as issues
- work can start next week

----

# Team Container
### Migration of current Kubernetes OpenStack to new one

- worked on a feature list of current repo
- discussed migration paths for individual features
- open discussion for other features, so that following steps are needed:
a) understanding the feature
b) do we want to migrate
c) how can we migrate

----

# Team Container
## KaaS dedicated Hackathon in Bratislava end of release
- date almost fixed
- intended to bring the release into good condition

----

# Team Container
## Kubernetes standards: volumes

- check out the following issue if you know about Kubernetes volumes:
https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/214

----

# Team Container
## Team mission

- call for ideas for a team mission (e.g. via Matrix)
- current ideas:
a) "We're building a streamlined platform that simplifies the management of Kubernetes clusters on various providers."
b) "We want to enable OpenStack (SCS) CSPs to offer a managed k8s solution to their customers"

---

# SIG Documentation

* Preparation for the hacking session next week: Re-name Developer / Contributors
* Shift “Cloud Resources” better into the Operator section and “GitHub” better into the “Developer/Contributor” section
* put the 5G lab deployment example into IaaS examples in the Operators section

---

# SIG Standardization/Certification

The SIG standardization and certification discusses how we approach standardization, how we develop and approve standards and manage their lifecycle, how we validate providers, how certificates are handed out, what the policies around them are (e.g. validity).

----

# SIG Standardization/Certification

* Well, no one showed up (except for @cah-hbaum who got summoned by @mbuechse because they are colleagues)
* Please send any improvement proposals regarding the invitation to @mbuechse (have people RSVP beforehand?)
* Might try again next week (special installment outside the regular cadence, because otherwise only Dec 14th before the year is out)

---

# SIG Monitoring

* [KaaS Observability Repository](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-observability)
* [MVP-0](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/291) is finished
* [detailed Announcement in Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/!ToxwzOWTBqSjxRAwuj:matrix.org/$FgvTSRHoP2ErA3hjAIA33t55hoTGwH7R1zNdO3jIl4c)
* There are still some open questions and decisions for MVP-1

---

# ITZ Bund Tender

* Extended till Dec 11 due to many questions

---

# Ask us everything you ever wanted to know

---

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/1b319533-5f21-4ed4-88da-bf97a9172f5d.jpg)
