# SCS Tech Weekly 2023-05-11

## Meta

- Minutes: Jonas

## Team updates

### Team IaaS

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/iaas/20230503.md

- Which item has the MOST IMPACT on the project?

  - Discussion of the outage which caused the downtime of Hedgedoc & Co.
  - (Overflow slot) Flavor naming discussion
  - Open CVEs for Cinder and Nova regarding volume attachments in iSCSI setups: https://scs.community/security/2023/05/10/cve-2023-2088/

- This item is next:

  - RabbitMQ has some maintenance/upgrade difficulties -> There will be a lightning talk by the YAOOK team next week in a lightning talk after the Community Call: How the YAOOK project manages RabbitMQ.

- Is there community input needed?

  - The time keeping issue in the VMs: https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/428

- Best thing in the call

  - Good infrastructure discussions

### Team Container

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/container/20230508.md

- Which item has the MOST IMPACT on the project?


- This item is next:

- Is there community input needed?
  
  - RWX storage class standardisation discussion: do we want to support this out of the box or not?

- Best thing in the call

  - High-level discussions helped a lot to bring people in who're not too interested in the implementation details of the reference implementation

### Team Ops

Minutes: None yet

- Which item has the MOST IMPACT on the project?

  - Zuul instance progress: up & running and can receive workload now

- This item is next:
- Is there community input needed?

  - Survey was sent out regarding the container layer monitoring requirements -- be sure to respond (see scs-tech mailing list or https://scs-container-monitoring.limesurvey.net/859749?lang=en )

- Best thing in the call

### Team IAM & IAM Hacking Session

Did not take place this week due to scheduling conflicts and vacation.

### SIG Community

Minutes: None yet

- Which item has the MOST IMPACT on the project?

  - How to reach smaller entities, i.e. not huge CSPs or companies, but individuals or small setup owners

- This item is next:

  - Blogpost on the above topic

- Is there community input needed?
- Best thing in the call

  - Good moderation
  - New target groups
  
### AOB

## Project Updates

**NB:** This section will only contain the minutes on things which are not explicitly mentioned in the corresponding slides. In addition, things which are being repeated (such as job offers) in meetings will may not be repeated in the minutes.

## Tenders

- The last tenders (VP-06b, VP-06e) will be published soon-ish, and then it's over.

## Lightning Talk Today

- Summary of the Gaia-X Tech-X & Hackathon #6
