# SCS Tech Weekly 2023-02-02

## Meta

- Minutes: Jonas

## Team updates

### Team IaaS

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/iaas/20230215.md

- Sprint review
  - Ceph validator
  - OpenStack Image Manager
  - Cloud in a Box
  - Airgapped installations
    - Won't come into R4
  - Layer 3 LB
    - Bug open for health monitor, have to wait for upstream fix
  - PoC for k8s on management plane
    - Has some importance because keycloak has been removed from OSISM, so it needs a new home
    - also not in R4
  - Ceph encryption performance comparison blog article
  - Flavor renaming
- Sprint planning
  - Metering tasks started
  - Otherwise pushed back to Monday's overflow slot
    - Discuss prerequisites for a code freeze in a couple of weeks

### Team Container

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/container/20230213.md

- Layer 3 LB topic
- Standardisation of RWO storage class done
- Discussed more features of storage classes and what may be needed, 
  - Performance discussion postponed
  - Encryption is also postponed for now
  - RWX is most important for now, and set as good goal for R5
- dNation created ADR for registry decision

### Team Ops

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/ops/20230216.md

- Status page
  - Discussion of next steps
  - ADR which states the overall intentions and justification for own implementation
- Cloudmon: there will be a simple website using github pages to make it more approachable
- Zuul for SCS
- OpenStack health monitor
- Karma as alternative to alerta
  - Will be demonstrated in the SIG monitoring tomorrow
- Compliance checks integration in CI

### Team IAM & IAM Hacking Session

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/iam/20230215.md

- Sprint review + planning
- Focus area on the IdP
  - Deep dive into this to gather requirements
  - Will be done next week in the IAM call, or in the overflow in the week thereafter.
- ADR on IdP broker requirements
- Documentation for federated authentication
- Discussion with upstream on Federation
- Zitadel tests

No reports from IAM hacking session.

### SIG Monitoring Audit Log Breakout

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/sig-monitoring-audit-log-wg/20230210.md (were originally in the wrong place, so the link may not work yet)

- Relation between Audit Logging and Metering and VP13 (tender package 13)
- Connect with OpenStack telemetry project to understand overlap
- Discussed STACKIT consumption API and how that serves as an example for the Metering
- Outcome: push audit log events (instead of pulling), applying backpressure when the buffer is full, and see if and what can be replayed
- Still open question: should audit logging be a blocking operation, i.e. block actions? possibly not possible without significant modification of OpenStack.

### SIG Community

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/sig-community/20230213.md

- Event updates
- Community infrastructure: new host on the wavestack which serves some hosts
- Hedgedoc instance for collaborative minutes (mail will follow)

Question: Is there a thing with an overview of URLs?

- Not yet, we're looking into homer or similar

### AOB

- Will have a lightning talk about CHAOSS, tool to measure open source health

## Project Updates

**NB:** This section will only contain the minutes on things which are not explicitly mentioned in the corresponding slides. In addition, things which are being repeated (such as job offers) in meetings will may not be repeated in the minutes.

### Events

#### SCS summit

- Still acquiring speakers and setting up the programme
- Email with the next announcement is being prepared, planned to be sent in the next two weeks

#### SCS Hackathon

- Proposed topics will be published by Eduard soon

#### External events

- Market-X in March in Vienna, free participation, would be nice to meet people

