# SCS Tech Weekly 2023-07-27

## Meta

- Minutes: Jan

### Introduction of new members
- Filip (dNation)
    - helps at Team Container
    - Python and DevOps guy

## Team Updates

### Team Container (Jan)
- Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?
	- B1 Systems onboarding
- Any important decisions that are going to be taken?
	- To use the GatewayAPI implementation by Cilium as default
- What was relevant for R5?
	- e2e tests

### Team IaaS (Nils)
- Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?
  - Central API Endpoint with consistant semantics
  - Possibly KubeAPI Server Logic can be used
  - New SIG will be created for that
- Any important decisions that are going to be taken?
  - Certification
    - for September
    - flavor naming standards
- What was relevant for R5?
  - move keycloak to kubernetes will not happen

### Team IAM (Joshua)
- Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?
  - How to followup with DAASI
    - meet with our IAM experts (univention)
  - Central API Server
    - there are important IAM components
- Any important decisions that are going to be taken?
- What was relevant for R5?
  - Univention wasn't there

### Team Ops (Oliver)
- Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?
  - Central API Server
  - Status Page implementantion
    - API Server is finished now
    - How to do AuthN and AuthZ
    - 
- Any important decisions that are going to be taken?
  - Decided that we want to decide soon what authorization tools we are using for the Status Page
  - How to get going with the MVP for the Central API
- What was relevant for R5?
  - Will have a workshop and documentation for Zuul

### SIG Documentation
- Most important item to share with the group that was discussed?
  - Working on the procedural standard document
    - mbay and rholling contributing
- Any important decisions that are going to be taken?
  - Don't move the SIG documentation date
- What was relevant for R5?
  - Pay a lot into the outcome of 'SCS is understandable'


## Lightning Talks
- Today Observer Cluster by dNation
- next week Glasskube Kubernetes Operator
- Backlog: Zuul, Status Page, ...
- Public Cloud SIG will be more active from September

## Call for Participation
- SIG Release - R5 starts
- Tests for R5
- Oliver likes to have participation on SIG Central API

## Get up your butts
- Sports event
- Sign up for participation
- Sponsors wanted

## Tenders
- Created graphs as visualization on the financial tracking
- We want to match the budget at the end

## Hackathons
- Save the date: SCS Hackathon @ CLOUD&HEAT
- Community Activity a day before
  - dNation will be there!

## Job Offers
- Nadja joined and Marc will join us
- Please spread the word on the job offers
