# SCS Tech Weekly 2023-07-20

## Meta

- Minutes: Matej

### Introduction of new Members

- Welcome Nils Gondermann (B1)

## Team updates

### Team Container

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/container/20230717.md

- Cluster stacks - discussion continues 
  - kind not recommended for production - implement kind as bootstrap and move it to the prod. management
- Standards
  - k8s-new-version-policy
    - If there is serious CVEs we want to be fast
    - PR on review, but can we leverage trivy instead?
  - kaas-default-storage-class
    - ReadWriteOnce tests
      - Plan to investigate whether sonobuoy already have tests for RWO
    - Test - volume must be protected against data loss due to hardware failures
      - Hard to do

### Team IaaS

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/iaas/20230719.md

- Look at the sprint project board - what is in progress
  - Issue: OVN health monitor
    - There is an upstream fix
    - Upstream backport are already merged ! Cool
  - Metrics collection discussed as well
  - Flavour aliases issue
    - Introduce search interface into nova API 
- Volume type standard - PR on review
- Image standard discussions

### Team IAM

Company DAASI https://daasi.de/en/ visited team IAM 
  - interesting discussions happened

### Team IAM - hacking session

- Team went through open PRs 
- Discussion above keystone and cooperation with upstream folks on issue, cool!

### Team Ops

Minutes: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/blob/main/ops/20230720.md

- Zuul
  - Zuul is an important milestone for SCS - it is crucial to spread the knowledge how to use this tool
    - There will be lighting talk about zuul  

- Status page API and application
  - Tests are defined
  - Work on the API part is finished
  - Lightning Talk planned
- There will be SIG for Central API - lead by @joshmue and @o-otte 

## AOB

### Next operator coffee - mon 15:05 CEST

### Reshuffling team meetings

- Wed 10:05 - 10:55 CEST: Team IaaS (Felix) – unchanged
- Wed 11:35 – 12:25 CEST: Team Container (Jan) – old IAM slot
- Thu 10:05 – 10:55 CEST: Team Ops (Felix) – as before
- Thu 11:35 – 12:25 CEST: Team IAM (Kurt) – 24hrs later then previously

### Tenders

- VP06a-2 (Container Network Integration, Container Storage Integration) - Congratulations to B1 Systems, onboarded today
- VP09c (Pentesting) - Congratulations to Proventa AG with a subcontractor
- VP12 (Health monitoring): Tender is open, info available here https://www.dtvp.de/Satellite/public/company/project/CXP4YV767EM/de/documents

### Hackathons

- Mini hackathon #3 (Central API (CAS)) 
  - New SIG for building MVP
  - Use k8s API - it seems that it is the best way to go
  - We discussed a various user stories 
  - We discussed multi-tenancy feature - do we need CAS for each customer?

## Lighting talk
  
- no today
- next week - Observer Cluster - dNation
 