# SCS Tech Weekly 2023-06-29

## Meta

- Minutes: Matej

### Welcome our 5th SCS provider

- [aov IT.Services](https://www.aov.de/aov-itservices-gmbh/)

## Team updates

### Team Container

- Newcomers
  - Aniruddha, Nitish from Syself
  - Johann Gnaucke from Gardener
- Dedicated matrix channel for Team Container
  - https://matrix.to/#/!NZpJdPGjAHISXnHUil:matrix.org?via=matrix.org&via=matrix.kptt.net
- Reference implementation
  - A lot of upgrades (Terraform, CAPI, CAPO, K8s version, OCCM, CAlico, Cilium, Flux, Cert manager, Helm)
- Cluster Stacks
  - Discussions on how to contribute to the repository
- Lightning talk Cilium
  - By Thomas Güttler, Syself
- Lightning talk about ClusterStacks planned to the next week (Syself)

### Team IaaS

- Standard - naming of volume types
  - Notes available [here](https://input.scs.community/JnaY5i70R_yc7JkSNVtlKQ)
  - Breakout discussion planned
- PoC - flavor manager
  - Aim: have a detailed and structured flavor descriptions
  - Multiple stages of PoC planned
- IaaS entropy tests
  - PR ready for merge, but there ase some dependencies on Zuul
    - waiting for Zuul
- Health Monitor for LB with OVN provider
  - Work is being done upstream
- Metric collection in the iaas reference implementation
  - Another tool to monitor OpenStack will be published soon (prometheus exporter) by @jnull
  - Standard for metering data format in discussion
- Supporting flavor aliases
  - try to find a principled solution ASAP
- SSD flavor decision - PR merged
- v3 flavors and introduce IaaS-compatible v3 - PR merged
  - potential improvements have been discussed as well
- Split flavor naming and mandatory flavors in two separate standards
  - Test script should be split as well
  - Standard flavors should be listed without referring to them by name
- Ceph Upgrade: Pacific -> Quincy
  - PS - enable to upgrade

### Team Ops

- Status page
  - OpenAPI spec is complete, PR merged
  - ADR in progress
  - Initial Work on testing stubs started
- Zuul - conformance checks
  - Issue: how to provide secrets to consumers? (compliance check running in zuul)
- Container observability
  - Survey results have been presented and are available issues/#355

### Team IAM

- Adding realms requires container restarts
  - Issues have been solved - PR is coming
- PlusServer naming ADR
  - On hold
- Device auth code flow
  - Non blocker - waiting for upstream
- Ongoing epics discussions
- IdP control of cluster-admin access
  - Some progress has been done
  - Ongoing issue: API server currently not reaching the testbed network

### SIG Documentation

- Standards
  - Proposal (wip): Visualization of certification
    - Discussion about metadata, signed labels, flavour naming, etc.
- SIG Docs survey results have been presented
  - See community call slides

## Project Updates

- There will be not meeting from Wed. to Fri. in two weeks
  - PR will be created

### Events

- No news
  - To anyone: fell free to raise your voice if you want to join to some upcoming event

### Hackathons

- No news

### SCS project Team Members

Welcome:
- Nadja Schieber
- Marc Schöchlin

### Project connected with SCS

- ECO:DIGIT
  - Kick off meeting planned to the next week
  - It is a partner project of SCS

## Lightning Talk Today

- OpenStack Image Manager in Action
