---
title: SCS Community Call
type: slide
tags: presentation
slideOptions:
  theme: white
  transition: 'slide'
  parallaxBackgroundSize: '1920px 1080px'
---


<style>
    .slides h1 {
        font-size: 32px;
        font-family: lato;
        color: "#50c3a5";
    }
    .slides h2 {
        color: "#0f5fe1";
        font-size: 28px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides h3, .slides h4 {
        font-size: 20px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides li {
        font-size: 16px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides p {
        font-size: 16px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides ul {
        display: block!important;
    }
</style>

<!-- .slide: data-background="https://input.scs.community/uploads/1fc8811b-c227-4e7d-9851-dffebff408ca.png" -->


<!-- Ease preperation with the template: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/tree/main/community-call/template.md -->

# <font color="#50c3a5" style="text-shadow: -1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px -1px 0 #FFF, -1px -1px 0 #FFF;">Sovereign</font> <font color="#0f5fe1" style="text-shadow: -1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px -1px 0 #FFF, -1px -1px 0 #FFF;">Cloud Stack</font>
## <font color="#7D7D82" style="text-shadow: -1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px -1px 0 #FFF, -1px -1px 0 #FFF;">One platform â€“ standardized, built and operated by many.</font>
## <font color="#0f5fe1" style="text-shadow: -1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px -1px 0 #FFF, -1px -1px 0 #FFF;">Community Call 2024-11-28</font>

---

# Team IaaS

We build the reference implementation of the IaaS parts of SCS

Report by @janhorstmann

----

## Team IaaS

* Short report about debugging of cinder problems at Artcodix
  * Short discussion about quorum queues, rabbitmq4 and oslo messaging

---

# Team IAM & Security
Report by @garloff

----

## Security

* Security pipeline works again with zuul back in place
    * One issue left to ananlyze
* Sec doc improvements
* Greenbone Enterprise not a 1:1 replaceent for Greenbone CE

---

# Team Ops
Report by @o-otte

----

# Team Ops

- **End of VP06d**
    - Cleanup of GitHub Issues
    - Finalizing and Wrap-up of Status Page and Cluster Stacks Asset Creation automation

---

# Team Container
Report by @garloff

----

## Node distribution policy
- [KaaS-v1](https://docs.scs.community/standards/scs-compatible-kaas) cert scope released
- [scs-0214-v2](https://docs.scs.community/standards/scs-0214-v2-k8s-node-distribution) stabilized
- Recapping the Matrix discussion
    - node distribution req. is highly desirable (even better would be distr across failure zones / availability zones)
    - hard to test because we don't have hypervisor host information at k8s level
        - `node-id` rejected due to live migration trouble
        - live migration discussion ...
        - ideas how to still test -> ToDo

---

# SIG Community
Did not take place ...

---

# SIG Standards & Certification
Report by @garloff

* [IaaS-v5](https://docs.scs.community/standards/scs-compatible-iaas) :heavy_check_mark:
    * With list of mandatory services [scs-0123-v1](https://docs.scs.community/standards/scs-0123-v1-mandatory-and-supported-IaaS-services)
* [KaaS-v1](https://docs.scs.community/standards/scs-compatible-kaas) released :rocket:
    * With node distribution [scs-0214-v2](https://docs.scs.community/standards/scs-0214-v2-k8s-node-distribution)
    * With network policies [scs-0219-v1](https://docs.scs.community/standards/scs-0219-v1-kaas-networking)

---

# Visibility & Press & Events

- IG BvC meet in D'dorf (Jan, Felix)
- Open Source eXPerience - 4.+5. Dec in Paris https://www.opensource-experience.com/en/  Felix, Kurt (talk)
- FOSDEM: Joint DevRoom Sovereign Cloud, ZenDiS, DINUM
    - CfP: https://lists.fosdem.org/pipermail/fosdem/2024q4/003608.html - Deadline Dec 1

---

# Training and Consulting RFQ from ITU

- See mail to members and forum
- Till Dec 5: Offer (1) Training material, (2) onsite trainings, (3) onsite consulting

---

# Meetings going forward

- @garloff will make proposal for meetings past Dec 2024
    - Others welcome as well
- To be discussed in community
- Ultimately under guidance of project board
    - Will also make this transparent to all
