---
title: SCS Community Call
type: slide
tags: presentation
slideOptions:
  theme: white
  transition: 'slide'
  parallaxBackgroundSize: '1920px 1080px'
---

<style>
    .slides h1 {
        font-size: 36px;
        font-family: lato;
        color: "#50c3a5";
    }
    .slides h2 {
        color: "#0f5fe1";
        font-size: 30px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides h3, .slides h4 {
        font-size: 24px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides li {
        font-size: 20px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides p {
        font-size: 20px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides ul {
        display: block!important;
    }
</style>


# <font color="#50c3a5" style="text-shadow: -1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px -1px 0 #FFF, -1px -1px 0 #FFF;">Sovereign</font> <font color="#0f5fe1" style="text-shadow: -1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px -1px 0 #FFF, -1px -1px 0 #FFF;">Cloud Stack</font>
## <font color="#7D7D82" style="text-shadow: -1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px -1px 0 #FFF, -1px -1px 0 #FFF;">One platform – standardized, built and operated by many.</font>
## <font color="#0f5fe1" style="text-shadow: -1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px -1px 0 #FFF, -1px -1px 0 #FFF;">Community Call 2024-06-20</font>


---

# Team IaaS

Report by @gtema

We build the reference implementation of the IaaS parts of SCS that informs and adheres to the SCS IaaS standards.

----

## Team IaaS

### Mandatory/Supported services

- Switching to listing required API unrealistic
- Rephrase to "API compatible to the OpenStack service XXX"

### Key Manager

- active standard review process


---


# Team IAM & Security - IAM

Report by @JuanPTM

The Team IAM/Sec deals with topics around Identity and Access Management.

Sovereign Cloud Stack has the goal that user identities can used across several layers in the stack (most importantly IaaS and Container layer), that user management should be a self-service capability and that user identities can be federated.

Authentication and Authorization are important topics for the security of a platform. We deal with those here, but currently also the broader topics around security / penetration testing.

----

## Team IAM & Security - IAM / Security

### Root password

- Discussion about if it is a good best practice to add a parameter that allows to set the password of the root user
    - NO NEED for this.

----

## Team IAM & Security - IAM / Security

### SCS Security Guide

- Discussion about the idea
    - Review existing work and consolidate them into docs.scs

----

## Team IAM & Security - IAM / Security

### IAM

- Working on moving Keycloak container build into zuul
- MR for importing customs CAs into Keycloak 


----

## Team IAM & Security - IAM / Security

### Pentesting

- Weekly pipeline merged
    - Defectdojo repo created, contains neccesary fields for defectdojo deployment
    - Documentation WIP

----

## Team IAM & Security - IAM / Security

### Pentesting
- CaaS Layer scanning
    - New repo for k8s scanning using trivy
    - Vulnerabilities of the cluster and containers -> DefectDojo
    - Reports of SBOMs generated
        - TODO: Storage and export

---

# Team Ops

And SIG Central API

Report by @o-otte

We build tooling and infrastructure design for easy, efficient 
and transparent ways to operate an SCS Cloud.

----

## Team Ops 

### Zuul Incident

- Full Zuul Disk led to corrupted ZooKeeper database
- Were able to restore a Zookeeper Snapshot prior the incident to save decryption keys. Zuul is working again
- The incident made clear that the Zuul setup is not production ready, currently
- New Setup is being discussed

    - Proposal to also separate handling of secrets to e.g. OpenBao

----

## Team Ops

### IaaS Monitoring

- OpenStack API Exporter integration merged in OSISM
- Porting of SCS monitoring features (docs and helm values) to upstream is ongoing
- Enabling Loki on `monitoring.scs.community`
- Discussion on Log-shipping and storage

    - OSISM uses OpenSearch and Fluentd, Loki would cover the same features

----

## Team Ops

### Status Page

- API Server and Components offer Metrics, those will be integrated with the SCS Observability Stack
- Work on MVP3 to enable Status Updates via the Web UI

    - MVP3 should be ready beginning of July (approx. CW27) 

----

### Team Ops

### SIG Central API

- Demo presentation of integrating Gardener with Central API and Crossplane Resources
- Work on integrating also ClusterAPI and KaaS Reference Implementation

    - Both Backends can be used with the same user-facing abstraction
    - Currently only supports cluster name and version
    - Will be further extended 

---

# Team Container

Report by @jschoone

----

# Team Container
## Moin Cluster
- back after outage
- docs have been improved
- is now equipped with openstack application credential in every kaas-playground namespace
- lightning talk will be held next week (2024-06-27)

----

# Team Container
## Standards
- Progress in Cluster Hardening, will likely merged shortly
- Extension in implementation notes as a result of an SCS standardized yaook installation

----

# Team Container
## Dependency in Helm version
- Helm charts could fail with different Helm version

----

# Team Container
## scs1 local storage physical hosts
- Currently scs1 has only two nodes with local storage
    - need to use soft-anti-affinity here, because controlplanes can't be distributed as they should
    - will be fixed with scs2

---

# SIG Monitoring

Report by @bitkeks

- Looked into alerting of Zuul problems (cpu, net and disk are covered)
- Enable Loki on monitoring.scs.community
- We had a genereal look on some aspects of observability

- Upcoming week eco:digit is invited

---

# EOF
**Save the date 2024-09-05**
Come to our Community - SCS achievements - R7 - knowledge dissemination - event with talks, presentations, pat on our backs, get-together in Berlin

Join the SIG Community to support the preparations! 

## Wanted: Sponsors

For all partners and users of SCS: CfP: https://scs.sovereignit.de/nextcloud/apps/forms/s/6Kaze6X8CSB3yqe5TEgP7eop 

---

# Events this week
* June 17-18 Weizenbaum Conference in Berlin (Felix on panel)
* June 18-22 CloudLand in Brühl (Kurt: Talk + Panel moderation)
* June 19 Informatik-Tag HTW Berlin (Manuela with talk)
* June 19 IHK Open Source Tag Berlin (Felix)
* June 19 StackIT Cloud X Summit in Heilbronn (Marc)

---

# Upcoming events

* July 1-2 Kubernetes Community Day Munich (Syself with a talk, Dominik + Jan)
* July 3 GeoWebTalk Geonetzwerk.metropoleRuhr (online) (Manuela with talk)
* July 9+10 UN Symposium OSPOs for Good, New York (Kurt, SCS to be featured in ZenDiS side-event)
* September 12 bitkom Forum Open Source, Erfurt (Manuela with talk)
* September 24-26 GI INFORMATIK2024 in Wiesbaden (Dominik + Manuela with Workshop, talk & panel discussion)
* October 29/30: ALASCA Summit Dresden
* October 31 Behördenspiegel Seminar in Neuss (t.b.d.)

---

# Docs, docs, docs

Finalization of works on tenders is in sight. Document everything you work on and know ;)

Check https://docs.scs.community/docs



---

# Open Operations Meetup 

Upcoming: Security in OpenStack!

Date: 2024-07-15

---

# Visit our Youtube Channel

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuCOl-JqbVgH2yxUz1H3L0w

New there: videos of the Open Operations Meetups and lately the first videos of the 2. SCS Summit!

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/7b96663b-59eb-45ec-ae46-6f98e1c7fcf8.png)

---

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/53543e9f-08d8-45d7-b90c-fbd05deb1552.png)

