---
title: SCS Community Call
type: slide
tags: presentation
slideOptions:
  theme: white
  transition: 'slide'
  parallaxBackgroundSize: '1920px 1080px'
---


<style>
    .slides h1 {
        font-size: 32px;
        font-family: lato;
        color: "#50c3a5";
    }
    .slides h2 {
        color: "#0f5fe1";
        font-size: 28px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides h3, .slides h4 {
        font-size: 20px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides li {
        font-size: 16px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides p {
        font-size: 16px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides ul {
        display: block!important;
    }
</style>




<!-- Ease preperation with the template: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/tree/main/community-call/template.md -->

# <font color="#50c3a5" style="text-shadow: -1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px -1px 0 #FFF, -1px -1px 0 #FFF;">Sovereign</font> <font color="#0f5fe1" style="text-shadow: -1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px -1px 0 #FFF, -1px -1px 0 #FFF;">Cloud Stack</font>
## <font color="#7D7D82" style="text-shadow: -1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px -1px 0 #FFF, -1px -1px 0 #FFF;">One platform â€“ standardized, built and operated by many.</font>
## <font color="#0f5fe1" style="text-shadow: -1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px -1px 0 #FFF, -1px -1px 0 #FFF;">Community Call 2024-09-12</font>

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/816ab6e7-cee4-4052-bdd7-3035a60626db.jpg =640x)



---

# Team IaaS

We build the reference implementation of the IaaS parts of SCS 

Report by <a href="https://github.com/artificial-intelligence">@artificial-intelligence</a>

----

## Team IaaS


We got Release Notes for R7 merged!
ðŸŽ‰ https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/release-notes/blob/main/Release7.md ðŸŽ‰

:confetti_ball: :beers: 

----

## Team IaaS

- Domain Manager Standard stabilization ([PR #586](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/586))
    - will be available upstream in 2024.2 release
    - as R7 still ships 2024.1 we will ship the backport until R8(+) will ship upstreams version

----

## Team IaaS

- Role Standard ([PR #590](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/590))
    - lots of changes upstream
    - next upstream release would make secure RBAC the default
    - still some upstream patches in flight, Markus checks if there are blockers

----

## Team IaaS

- Volume Backup Standard ([PR #567](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/567))
- the standard now makes providing the Volume Backup API a MUST and using a separate storage backend for this a SHOULD
- needs reviews (preferrably from CSPs) and approval.

----

## Team IaaS

- Secure Connections Standard ([PR #548](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/548))
- Questions around testability of internal CSP networks arose and how to deal with them
- mandate that all internal network traffic must be encrypted?
- need to do some kind of CSP audit

----

## Team IaaS

- Mandatory and Supported APIs on IaaS Level ([PR #587](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/587))
    - SIG Security would like to standardize S3 API as mandatory, replacing Swift
    - there was no real (dis)agreement, S3 API is a moving target, no standard, as is any implementation 

----

## Team IaaS

- LAST CALL: Availability Zones ([PR #640](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/640))
- still no real reviews from CSPs, please review!

----

## Team IaaS

- Upstream contribution of subnet NTP server injection ([PR #577](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/577))
- a breakout session will take place to discuss this topic

---

# Team IAM & Security

Report by <a href="https://github.com/garloff">@garloff</a>

----

## Security

### Security pipelines
* Currently gx-scs (aka SCS1) in a bad state: LBs and VMs fail
* Increasing performance using more powerful flavors
* Continue to differentiate between `-test` jobs and full production runs
* Need for central `releaseN.yaml` files that lists all artifacts and their hashes
    * Can then be used for SBOM generation

----

## Federation

* Digesting [workshop results](https://input.scs.community/Workshop-IAM-20240830#)
    * New requirements came up:
        * Users that do not belong to a single domain
        * Login from global/social Identity providers (e.g. github)
* Working on [requirements and design doc](https://input.scs.community/scs-federation#)

----

## Domain-Manager role (persona)

* Was merged upstream (just ahead of 2024.2 freeze)
    * Great job from @markus-hentsch, @josephineSei, @gtema
    * Some test and docs pending
* Will thus be in R8+
* Downstream implementation with `policy.yaml` file will be maintained until then
    * Relevant standard will need implementation (and testing) notes reflecting this

---

# Team Ops

Report by <a href="https://github.com/o-otte">@o-otte</a>

----

## Team Ops

- Report Central API: Will continue to extend XRDs for Kubernetes management
- Status Page 1.0.0 Release: Please Test
- GX-SCS Problems
    - Problems Harbor was not accessible, Zuul problems
    - Seem to be resolved
- SBOM generation
    - Should be done for all deliverables and part of release notes
    - Comparison Syft and Trivy

---

# Team Container

Report by <a href="https://github.com/chess-knight">@chess-knight</a>

----

## Team Container

### Finished tenders
- VP05 and VP06c
- All the major and important tasks for KaaS reference implementation are finished

----

## Team Container

### Next steps after the release
- Further documentation
- Standardization work
- Turnkey solution
    - guide how to adapt cluster stacks to your own needs

---

## Team Container

### Track upstream contributions
- HostID
- Server groups (anti-affinity)

---

## SIG Documentation

### R7
* Everything merged

### Artcodix Docs
* incoming on [PR 188](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/docs/pull/188)

### Rookify Docs
* First look on the [Issue](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/rookify/issues/5)

### Turnkey Solution
* First Overview Doc [online](https://docs.scs.community/docs/turnkey-solution/overview) 
* soon more from [hardware-landscape](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/hardware-landscape/tree/main/documentation) 

---

## Open Operations

**Meetup at the 9th of September**

"Kubernetes-aaS: Developing and deploying SCS Cluster Stacks"

* Great presentation
* Move more into sharing and discussing Operational Knowledge again in the future

---

# R7 was released yesterday

* Postponed by a week due to [CVE 2024-44082](https://scs.community/security/2024/09/07/cve-2024-44082/) (Ironic image processing)
* [Press Release](https://scs.community/release/2024/09/11/release7/)
* [Release Notes](https://docs.scs.community/docs/releases/Release7)
* After R7 is before R8
    * More work on [turnkey solution](https://docs.scs.community/docs/turnkey-solution/overview)
    * More work on federation
    * Turning Tech Previews (e.g. Kamaji) into stable releases
    * Documenting the work

---

## Publicity

See also <https://scs.community/news/>

* [Blog](https://scs.community/blog/) articles:
    * [Sec scanning](https://scs.community/2024/09/03/security-tools-tech-preview/)
    * [Central API](https://scs.community/tech/2024/08/13/central-api-tech-preview-release/)
    * [New Health Mon](https://scs.community/tech/2024/09/06/vp12-scs-health-monitor-tech-preview/)

* golem+: L-M article [republished](https://www.golem.de/news/freiheitskaempfer-sovereign-cloud-stack-eine-echte-alternative-2409-188281.html)

---

## EOF Community Meeting

**2024-09-05** Great event at *SysEleven*

- Look back at the results of 3+ years of work (teams, SIGs)
- Hear from partners
- BMWK, ZenDiS and govstack contributions
- Food, drinks, TT

----

### Repository handling after the end

[EOF community discussion](https://input.scs.community/Future-of-SCS-Repos#): What happens to the repos on github?
* They need care (removing spam, responding to issues, PRs, ...)
* This can not be handled by a single person
* Unmaintained projects should be archived
    * They could obviously be forked to some other place with active maintenance. While this is allowed by design, having a central place is normally preferrable.

.
Preliminary result of discussion:
* Clean up the unused, unmaintained repos
* Set up a project board as steering entity (see next slides)
* Find out about (a) usage and (b) contribution willingness via survey
* Project Boards finds maintainers
* Legally, OSBA (SCS-Standards forum?) owns the space and can be escalated to


----

### Project board idea

* Project Board? what is up with that?

----

#### Proposal 1 of 2

* 1 Person from the group of the CSPs
* 1 Person from the group of implementing companies
* 1 Person from the public sector
* 1 Person from the companies producing SCS components
* 1 Person from Forum SCS Standards
* 2 Persons from the community

-> People nominate themselves
-> The community (=> registered people in our GH org) are eligable to vote


----

#### Proposal 2 of 2

* 1 person from each involved company (CSPs, Implementation partners, vendors - as i.e. company represented in the github organization)
* 1 person from Forum SCS (or OSBA) that is not represented by the item above
