---
title: SCS Community Call
type: slide
tags: presentation
slideOptions:
  theme: white
  transition: 'slide'
  parallaxBackgroundSize: '1920px 1080px'
---


<style>
    .slides h1 {
        font-size: 32px;
        font-family: lato;
        color: "#50c3a5";
    }
    .slides h2 {
        color: "#0f5fe1";
        font-size: 28px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides h3, .slides h4 {
        font-size: 20px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides li {
        font-size: 16px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides p {
        font-size: 16px;
        font-family: lato;
    }
    .slides ul {
        display: block!important;
    }
</style>

<!-- .slide: data-background="https://input.scs.community/uploads/861b508e-4071-483e-aeef-c280ecdfab3c.jpg" -->

<!-- Ease preperation with the template: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/minutes/tree/main/community-call/template.md -->

# <font color="#50c3a5" style="text-shadow: -1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px -1px 0 #FFF, -1px -1px 0 #FFF;">Sovereign</font> <font color="#0f5fe1" style="text-shadow: -1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px -1px 0 #FFF, -1px -1px 0 #FFF;">Cloud Stack</font>
## <font color="#7D7D82" style="text-shadow: -1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px -1px 0 #FFF, -1px -1px 0 #FFF;">One platform – standardized, built and operated by many.</font>
## <font color="#0f5fe1" style="text-shadow: -1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px 1px 0 #FFF, 1px -1px 0 #FFF, -1px -1px 0 #FFF;">Community Call</br> 2024-08-15</font>


---

# Team IaaS

Report by <a href="https://github.com/OgarOgarovic">@OgarOgarovic</a>

----

## Team IaaS

### Domain manager upstream state

Issue: [#384](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/384)
* core patchset in Keystone uploaded and under review
* remains to add negative Tempest test cases for Project Manager persona and release notes
* goal is to get it included in 2024.2 release 

----

## Team IaaS

### Standardized image encryption upstream state

Issue: [#560](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/issues/560)
* currently image encryption support in OpenStack is partial
* Nova for its own consumption, Cinder for its own consumption, users cannot upload encrypted images
* contribution aims to unify encryption metadata in Glance
* make Cinder be able to consume encrypted images from Nova and user upload
* core patchsets are drafted and manually tested, unit tests adjusted
* conclude unit tests, finalize and upload patchsets for review and implement image metadata migration for Glance

----

## Team IaaS

### EOF event presentation
* presenter and content discussion started

----

## Team IaaS

### Future of Interop Guidelines

* upstream efforts [abandoned](https://www.openstack.org/brand/interop/)?
* tempest tests are maintained, refstack exists and works
* fill the gaps? own set of tempest tests?
* do we test APIs availability and behavior? 
* criticism of API based interoperability testing as too static
* alternative: differences discoverability, maybe tool based testing, ensuring tooling is able to discover differences and deal with them
* reach out to public cloud SIG

----

# Team IAM & Security

Report by <a href="https://github.com/garloff">@garloff</a>

----

## Security

* Security scan pipeline are finalized for R7
    * Documentation needs final touches
    * CronJob to upload logs (beyond what goes into [DefectDojo](https://defectdojo.infra.sovereignit.cloud/dashboard))
* Blog article planned
* Idea of a *recommended* standard for CSPs

----

## Security/CI infrastructure

* [DefectDojo](https://defectdojo.infra.sovereignit.cloud/dashboard) setup
* Connected to keycloak
* Allowing for github logins
* Question: UCS is another IDM, unify?

----

## IAM - Federation

* keycloak as Identity Broker
    * allows all users from federated IdPs
    * no out-of-the-box filtering mechanism
    * problematic if you connect to IdPs that are not under your full control (such as github)
* Trouble with interactive (re-)authentication in federated setups and CLI/API usage
    * same challenges as with 2FA
    * device grant auth flow not a perfect match ...
* Re-review IAM architecture -> workshop Aug 30

----

## Planning EOF slot

Sec + IAM topics ...

---

# Team Ops

Report by <a href="https://github.com/o-otte">@o-otte</a>

----

## Team Ops

- **Central API:** Talk on Open Operations happened. Blog Post next week.
- **SCS Health Monitor:** Presentation of the Framework and Demo of the Health Monitor and CLI.

---

# Team Container

Report by <a href="https://github.com/jschoone">@jschoone</a>


----

## Team Container 
### Cluster Stacks on Hetzner Baremetal
- Will see a demo next week

----

## Team Container
### Readiness of KaaS for R7
- Critical things are all in good shape
- OCI registry support working
- Docs should better accessible through docs.scs.community
- Tests of Cluster Stacks run on different environments

----

## Team Container
### Talk at EOF
- Will be presented by Janis (Syself) and Jan (SCS)
- Topics will be
    - General overview of work in Team Container
    - Closer look on Cluster Stack Operator

---

# SIG Monitoring

Reported by <a href="https://github.com/matofeder">@matofeder</a>


---

## SIG Monitoring

Good and bad news about the SCS Monitoring instance running at: https://monitoring.scs.community

- :) The underlying k8s cluster has been updated to KaaS R6, and SSD flavor has been used for CP nodes
- :( We've observed unstable behavior in the UI (Grafana) and also in Loki [#74](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-observability/issues/74)

---


# SIG Documentation

Reported by <a href="https://github.com/FriederikeZelke">@FriederikeZelke</a>

We fixed issues in https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/docs/pull/188 on the fly - now Michael is able to contribute again

---

# SIG Standardization/Certification

Report by <a href="https://github.com/mbuechse">@mbuechse</a>

---

## SIG Standardization/Certification

- Getting CSPs back to green
- Presentation at EOF event
- Future of Interop Guidelines
- Migrate official compliance tests to Zuul


---

## Open Operations

The last meetup was about our Central API approach!

The videos of previous meetups are here: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLx1Xfd_O6YXF5Qah2fyT9gxp5ZjP_RvBb

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/56368756-7b80-4a61-bea1-c63ad29c6651.png)


---

# Docs, docs, docs

Finalization of works on tenders is in sight. 
Document everything you work on and know ;)

Check, enhance and improve:
https://docs.scs.community/docs

---

![](https://input.scs.community/uploads/6675e35f-cc8a-4c11-91a8-ed3a27589607.png =200x)

https://froscon.de/
- 17+18./8.
- ZenDiS (OpenCoDE, openDesk, ...)
- STF (Mirko)
- SCS (Felix -> Kurt)
- Lots of long-time open source developers

---

## EOF Community Meeting

**Join us in Berlin -- 2024-09-05**

Don´t miss the complete overview of SCS and celebrate with us our achievements!

Registration link, program, Hotel, ...:  https://events.scs.community/eof/ 

### ??? Why are you not coming ???

---

# R7 ahead

R7 scheduled for 2024-09-04
Release candidates
* Please test!

---

# SCS @govstack adoption

- Cloud infrastructure requirements (not yet finally approved): https://govstack.gitbook.io/cloud-infrastructure
    - Thanks to Max, Artem, Friederike!
    - Upstream discussion process (gitbook / JIRA) TBD
- SCS team as technical contributors: https://www.govstack.global/participate/tech-community/
- Training offerings wanted
    - 1: User perspective (DevOps teams using SCS IaaS+KaaS)
    - 2: Operator perspective
- Commercial support offerings wanted (UNICC / Countries)
