## 2023-06-12

### Participants
- @garloff
- @maxwolfs
- @matfechner
- @nerdicbynature
- @berendt
- @goern
- @schwesig

### Agenda

#### Focus
1. Filling OO with life
    * SCS operators lean coffee
    * Beyond SCS
    * What else?
2. Developing the OO concepts and structure further (manifesto, ...)
3. @garloff update invite, as it contains the link to the old etherpad

#### Open Operations call - Meetup (ad 1.)
* meeting will soon be implemented at meetup.com to open the community
    * Collect topics
        * e.g. inspired from existing (or to-be-written) blog posts
            * additional color from f2f conversations
            * additional learnings can be documented again
            * visibility 
* we want to get life into Open Operations - hands-on, best practises, collaboration, stories about failure and success
* Anecdotal exchange vs. systematic knowledge structuring 
* Identify formats for exchange (e.g. operator war stories) and areas of skill building (e.g. RCA templates)

* Collecting templates/best-practices for operational challenges
    * Root Cause Analysis
    * Security Incidents
    * ...

* "Operations" of what?
    * Different layers
        * Hardware / DC automation
        * IaaS / OpenStack
        * Containers / Cloud-Native
        * Platform Services
        * Applications
    * => One format but sessions / dates focused on individual "layers"

* Generate momentum by preparing the first few slots with selected/curated speakers :thumbsup:

#### Topics of our own interest
* How is SCS being used?
    * What operational topics emerge from this?
        * which are openly discussable, which are super top secret?
        * where can a community help (provider-agnostic topics)?
        (Beyond the classical capa management and hardware failure topics ...)
    * What are the procedures that are pre-defined, which ones can we develop together?
* War stories / fuck-up nights
    * Debugging
        * e.g. TSC vs HPET VM time
    * Recovery
    * How to better protect from shooting yourself?
        * How does it help in general?
* Recurring issues, how to automate it, e.g.
    * cleaning up resources :thumbsup:
        * On different layers (k8s, openstack, ovs, ...)
        * May have sustainability benefits
    * reconnect to restarted service (rabbitmq), ...
    * os-upgrade on upgrade
=> Continue topic collection via github

#### Off-topic
* ML workloads -- need sovereignty
* @schwesig Idea:
  * having max of 5 prepared meetings/talks/presentation to define some guidelines/main cluster topics, e.g.
  * "we don't know what we don't know", so some clusters/basic ideas can help to open discussions and interest
    * what are operations, what seems in and out of scope for us (scientific, definitions)
    * what operations are typically public, typically secret, depends on ... what? (experience, how to)
    * operations on different solutions/frameworks: what is the same, what differs between e.g. kubernetes, on prem, cloud stack, vm, ...
    * what operations are easily movable between solutions/providers, whcih are harder? why? technology based, provider based, workflow based, ...
    * is 100% sovereignty the goal? (the last 20% are always the hardest). If we have to decide to lock in with some technologies/providers, why, what are the costs, what are the pro and cons (FOSDEM talk gives some ideas here)
    * ...
---
