# 2022-09-07
## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* @fkr
* @tibeer
* @o-otte
* @ra-beer
* @maliblatt
* @jnull
* @garloff

## Recurring items

* Who is presenting in weekly community call and creates minutes from etherpad?
  * @o-otte

* Anything else to add to the agenda?
 * quick Update from Jeff regarding Update to pre-R3

## Agenda

* R3 - what is the state of yoga update as part of R3?
* R3 - Release notes? Where are your contributions?
* Testbed - what is it used for and what do we need it for

### Quick Update regarding pre-R3 update

No major problems encountered, feedback regarding lots of small items are being submitted to github.
Recap will follow to accomodate for public R3 release

### R3 - yoga update

* Yoga is fully integrated into testbed
* Manual upgrade paths are working
* Automated upgrade tests are being worked on - layer8 problems
* Looking much better than last week
* Upgrade to yoga as well as deployment with yoga both worked well

Heads-Up: when there are several ceph clusters in different AZs - problems might be encountered.
https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/292

@berendt wrote in that gh issue:
> Let's try it this way: https://review.opendev.org/c/openstack/kolla-ansible/+/856239 If that is accepted, I will make a backport of it to Yoga + Xena.


### R3 - Release Notes?
https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/Docs/issues/100


### Testbed
* Discussion about use-cases for the testbed
* How many flavours do we need
* Plan for R4 to improve the developer experience of the testbed
* TODO: "make check" should be extended

    - Did all *intended* components come up and are functional?

    * The deployment targets should have the matching test/monitoring configs!

    - More smoke tests ... (e.g. refstack, openstack-health-monitor, ....)

* Take prometheus templating and rendering of the proper configuration to sig monitoring, so that the sig monitoring pot. contributes this to the testbed

### Pre-Release Tests PS
* Next wednesday meeting with Linus to upgrade dev environment
* Someone should be taking notes, someone who is not involved into the upgrade
* Who wants to attend:
  * @fkr
  * @garloff (optional ;-))
