# 2022-11-16
## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* @matfechner
* @master-caster
* @itrich
* @ppkuschy
* @jnull
* @maliblatt
* @fkr
* @ra-beer
* @maxwolfs
* @garloff
* @berendt
* @o-otte
* @lossack
* @tibeer

## Recurring items
* Who is presenting in weekly community call and transforming etherpad to minutes in GitHub? @matfechner
* Anything else to add to the agenda?
* Fix date for hands-on session (2022-11-25 targeted). Who will take the lead?
* OpenStack Image Manager
* Housekeeping

## Agenda

### Flavor Standard -> PublicCloud SIG OpenInfra
   @fkr will report from PublicCloud SIG

   [publiccloud-sig-meeting](https://etherpad.opendev.org/p/publiccloud-sig-meeting)
   - that progress is manageable
   -  @garloff and @fkr will look over that and sync with SCS to see wether we can 
    have a mutual standard between SCS and what OpenInfra propagates

### local storage flavor PR

SCS-Docs#150 https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/Docs/pull/150
lease review until EOW, it will be merged then

### Hands-on Session 

Dec. 9th 2022

* @fkr, @matfechner and @garloff
* first SCS/OSISM Hands-on (like last time, @matfechner and @fkr)
* from 14:05 on we dive into Cluster-API (with @garloff)

### IAM and k8s in the management plane?

* [migrate IAM to k8s layer](https://github.com/osism/release/pull/621)
  - keycloak integrated into OSISM in order to make federation possible 
    (also in context of Gaia-X)
  - was meant to be a temporary solution ... OSISM not skilled to maintain keycloak
  - who maintains it? tender lot 8 winner?
  - how to deploy it?
  - what is the place for the IAM service / IAM broker in our architecture?

* Do we need a generic mechanism to add containers to the OSISM deployment?
  - plugin mechanism for playbooks and containers?
  - exists - requires custom ansible playbooks currently and then deploying additional 
     containers into docker/docker-compose
  - Future roadmap from OSISM: Provide a k8s cluster in the management plane, so operator
     can automate the deployment of extra services (e.g. for Ops tooling or for IAM)

  - using minikube / k3s / ... for the OSISM management cluster (~3 hosts)
  - even an external k8s cluster could be used

### OpenStack Image Manager

   quick review of current state in regard to ongoing sprint

