# 2023-03-22
## Participants (preferably github handles)

- @tibeer
- @master-caster
- @o-otte
- @ra-beer
- @fkr
- @matfechner
- @ppkuschy
- @cah-link
- @maxwolfs
- @jschoone
- @maliblatt

## Recurring items

- Who is presenting in weekly community call and transforming HedgeDoc
  to minutes in GitHub?
     - @matfechner
    
- Anything to add to the agenda?
    - [skopeo worker](https://github.com/osism/python-skopeo-worker) developed
    - gnocchi & ceph

## Agenda

### Pending R4 items

- Bugs in Horizon
    - [osism/issues#487](https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/487)
    - [osism/issues#488](https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/488)
    - won't be fixed in R4, but subsequent
        - Action Item: to be noted in release notes 
          - *@berendt -> OSISM* 
          - *@fkr -> SCS*

### What about R5?

- Proposal to do this on April 12th for Team IaaS: 10 - 12 CET
    - no hard objections from the Team
    - a lot of nodding
- Question about Retro: There will be a Retro, @fkr not sure which 
  format to suggest, will happen until EOW this week

### Skopeo worker

- Wrapper around skopeo 
- Need arose during development air-gap
- Containers need to be regularly synced from public registries
  to private registries
- Initial sync takes several days due to limits on upstream registries 
  and the sheer amount of images to sync 
   *(~ 270 container * the tags - traefik alone has 5k tags ;)*
- Should be re-used when registry.scs.community is brought up to date

### gnocchi & ceph

- [SovereignCloudStack/standards#PR237](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/237)
- Further discussion should happen along the ADR
    - @ppkkuschy will look at it
    - @fkr will look at it until EOW

### Discussion Imagecrawler

- [SovereignCloudStack/issues#168](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/168)
- should have a dynamic behavior use the upstream meta-information of versions 
- much rather than add arbitrary download capabilities, address upstream to 
  have latest pointers to images.
    - We will assemble a list of upstreams that need to be contacted.
    - @matfechner @master-caster will take this up
    - @tibeer: vyos & cirros
    
### Entropy Standard

- PR has been merged and is now in `Draft`-State
- [Standards/scs-0101-v1-entropy.md](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/blob/main/Standards/scs-0101-v1-entropy.md)
- Please comment until April 5th, 2023

### Flavor Manager

- [SovereignCloudStack/issues#236](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/236)
- Discussion on where to document this.
- Action Item: link this in the flavor standard
    - [SovereignCloudStack/Standards/scs-0100-v2-flavor-naming.md](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/blob/main/Standards/scs-0100-v2-flavor-naming.md)
    - https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/296
- Clarification on Standards-Repo
