# 2023-06-21

## Participants (preferably github handles)

- @o-otte
- @matfechner
- @ppkuschy
- @tibeer
- @artificial-intelligence
- @master-caster
- @fkr
- @josephineSei
- @jnull
- @mbuechse
- @garloff
- @ra-beer
- @frosty-geek
- @alexander-diab
- @berendt
- @horazont
- @cah-link
- @maxwolfs

## Recurring items

- Who is presenting in weekly community call and transforming etherpad to minutes in GitHub?
  - @mbuechse
- Anything to add to the agenda?

## Agenda

### Split Image Meta Data from Code from Image Manager

- Currently, list of images part of image-manager repo
- Splitting it out allows for different release cycle
- <https://github.com/osism/openstack-image-manager/issues/601>
- Do it!

### Dealing with Reverse DNS

<https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/547>

- skipped @osfrickler is needed for this

### OpenStack Powered Trademark Tests

- Upstream discussion on OpenStack Powered Trademark Tests (OIF board, InterOp WG): Invest or Drop? Engagement from SCS community highly welcome!!!
- Investment highly desirable from SCS perspective
- OpenInfra DB idea would extend this further
- Do this as part of VP01 & VP10-3 work
  - @mbuechse, @berendt to drive this

### Bump up recommended images?

- CentOS 8 has been EOL since 2021, seems(?) to need(?) hacky(?) workarounds such as

```
sudo sed -i -e "s|mirrorlist=|#mirrorlist=|g" /etc/yum.repos.d/CentOS-*
sudo sed -i -e "s|#baseurl=http://mirror.centos.org|baseurl=http://vault.centos.org|g" /etc/yum.repos.d/CentOS-*
```

- Deprecate CentOS8 as it's not maintained any more
- Recommend instead: Alma8/Rocky8? Alma9/Rocky9? All? None?
  - Decision: Drop CentOS8, make AlmaX (X=Latest) a recommended img
  - Can add RockyX if customers request it
  - AI @mbuechse to create PR

### Test script regarding scs-0101-entropy

- [issue #268](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/issues/268)
- script done by @cah-hbaum and @mbuechse; please [review](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/307)!
- ongoing: run test on reference implementation
  - @mbuechse got access to gx-scs, script tested, fixed, now working
  - problem 1: script currently requires network/router pre-configured
    - use pre-configured project or somehow equip the script to do the config automagically?
      - => Integrate into zuul: Either we get zuul to do this for us in a preparation phase or we need to do it in the script
  - problem 2: @mbuechse wondering: is `"image_original_user"` universally the correct image property for SSH-ing into the instance?
    - See [SCS-0102-v1](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/blob/main/Standards/scs-0102-v1-image-metadata.md)
  - further clouds?

### Zuul: What are the plans?

- Will replace current conformance tests (github actions)
- There will be a central zuul instance to talk to
  - should have nodepools on the various clouds
- github actions will call into zuul

### Fairness, honoring and cross-company pull requests

- Outcome of R4 Retro
- Even though I (@tibeer) didn't felt the need to step up and intervene, we might need to look for someone that has an eye on the above mentioned points in the IaaS calls.
- Currently handled well without a designated watcher, so no need to appoint a successor

### Advertisement - Werbung

[Mini Hackathon Central API @ Gonicus](https://input.scs.community/2023-scs-api-minihackathon#)
2023-07-18 in Arnsberg @ Gonicus, NRW

### Add support for flavor aliases

- original [issue #228](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/issues/228) potential shortcomings:
  - abuse endpoints/change semantics/introduce surprise
  - only one alias possible per flavor (in PoC implementation)
- proposal/new idea (courtesy of @anjastrunk):
  - use the canonical SCS flavor name as an extra_specs attribute
    - e.g., `scs_flavor_name_v3=SCS-16T-64-200s_GNa-64_ib`
- discussion ensued: @frosty-geek opposing this proposal
  - the flavor naming standard has fundamental deficiencies when it comes to complex scenarios (intention of flavor names v1 was to be "simple" & directly consumable for the end-user)
    - criticism regarding the scheme itself (applicable to this proposal):
      - it might be fine for basic flavors such as the mandatory ones, but it becomes unwieldy quickly if more info is desired, particularly for the end-user
      - permutation for every "optional" standard vs every hardware detail of the VM fully expanded => see @tibeer <https://github.com/osism/openstack-flavor-manager/tree/main/scs_flavor_generator> Issue raised a while ago
    - criticism regarding the issue of mandating actual flavor names (not applicable to this proposal):
      - renaming flavors is virtually a no-go (customer facing, need to stay stable)
      - some major CSPs already bailed out on grounds of this (example: StackIT)
  - what we really need (even according to the standard itself) is a mechanism for
    - (a) describing flavor properties in a detailed and structured manner (think json) and
    - (b) for automatically selecting the most suitable flavor according to customer requirements (e.g., in Ansible or Terraform)
  - therefore, the proposal merely constitutes a stop-gap measure
  - better to go for the real deal right away!

=> Separate discussion @mbuechse, @fkr
