# 2023-09-20

## Participants (preferably github handles)

- @matfechner
- @master-caster
- @ppkuschy
- @artificial-intelligence
- @garloff
- @lindenb1
- @markus-hentsch
- @sbstnnmnn
- @o-otte
- @berendt
- @frosty-geek
- @fkr

## Recurring items

- Who is presenting in weekly community call and transforming hedgedoc to minutes in GitHub?
    - @ppkuschy
- Anything to add to the agenda?

## Agenda

### Housekeeping 

- Checking AIs of last week
    - @fkr: connect @markus-hentsch with AOV and artcodix via e-mail: ✅
    - @fkr: before release: check with @berendt that docs are available and / or linked to ✅
    - @fkr: talk with @berendt about contact to vexxhost for a lightning talk in magnum & cluster api ✅ (Intro done..)

### R5 anyone? :)

- plain in testbed @matfechner
- try upgrade path in testbed @matfechner
- Release Notes published
- Press Release being sent out to journalists this morning
- ToDo: Press Release on our web page and tagging repos (where it has not happened yet)
- Great work again from the community :thumbsup:

### Sprint Review Kyoto & Sprint Planning Ljubljana
* IPv6 [issues/#166](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/166): Mentioned in R5 Release Notes
* Domain admin rights [issues/#184](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/184): Collecting the standard (ADR) in standards repo: [PR standards/#343](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/343) - state: is deployable, can be reviewed and tested
    * AI @fkr: send mail to scs-tech@ to fish for reviewers
* Metric collection [issues/#269](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/269) - mostly completed, looking for final steps
    * Testbed integration done (#346)
* Volume types [standards/#265](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/issues/265) done
* OSISM 6.0.0 done ([#658](https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/658))
    * last minute update of capi-1.5.1, capo-0.8.0 into testbed, ciab, will be migrated into role in the future
    * k3s vs. yaook-core (vs. pieces possibly supporting  KaaS) will be worked on in Hackathon
    * release notes and tag still to be done (in the next hours)
* ceph adding new OSDs [issues/#565](https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/565) is WIP, belongs to doc refactoring [#642](https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/642)
* ceph OSD device addition playbook [#595](https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/595) - done

#### Tests / Zuul ansible-collections 
* Molecule zuul job [#664](https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/664) -- needs refinement

#### Misc
* flavor- and image-manager work well
    * image download by glance hanging [#656](https://github.com/osism/openstack-image-manager/issues/656) is mysterious -- image download taking very long? Spotty or disallowed internet connection? Slow disks?
* R6 planning will be done -- prioritize ideas from the project sketch vs priorities in R6/R7.
* Related documents section in standards/ADRs can/should link docs from any public source, not restricted to SCS

