# 2023-07-10 - Overflow Session

## Participants (preferably github handles)

- @mbuechse
- @berendt
- @artificial-intelligence
- @garloff
- @fkr
- @mbay
- @nadja234

## Recurring items

- Who is transforming etherpad to minutes in GitHub?
  - @mbuechse

## Agenda

### Standard flavors: [#267](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/issues/267), [PR 319](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/319)

- Please review!
- mainly [scs-0103-v1-standard-flavors.md](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/blob/issue/267/Standards/scs-0103-v1-standard-flavors.md)
  - dedicated standard for the list of mandatory/recommended flavors
  - discoverability via extra specs (so far, `scs:cpu-type` and `scs:disk0-type`)
  - flavor name merely recommended, but: `scs:<name-v4>` field compulsory in extra specs
  - do not permit overdelivering of CPU, RAM, or disk: what you ask is what you get
- also: corresponding test script
- continue in this vein w/[Issue 353](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/353)
  - add properties to Flavor Manager Yaml
  - input is auto-generated, extend as needed

### Flavor naming and aliases [#228](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/issues/228)

- What is the demand that you see for aliases, what is the scenario?
  - Transition from one version of flavor naming to the next?
    - Somehow we got by without aliases until now.
    - Further changes of the names are virtually unacceptable.
  - Avoid transition pain (especially for previously non-SCS clouds)
  - Compatibility of non-SCS clouds made easier
  - Do both at the same time?
    - `GET novaURL/flavors&extra_specs=scs:SCSNAME`
    - `GET novaURL/flavors&extra_specs=name:SOMENAME` (allow multiple name attriute, one of them must be SCS- ...)
    - `GET novaURL/flavors&extra_specs=alias:OTHERNAME` (allow multiple alias extra_specs alias?)
- Shouldn't we prioritize and push for discoverability?
  - Try to use mechanisms for the aliases that can be reused for discoverability in general, so we don't lose time.
