# 2023-11-22

## Participants (use of github handle is preferred)

- @o-otte
- @gndrmnn
- @maxwolfs
- @markus-hentsch
- @sbstnnmnn
- @fkr
- @matusjenca2
- @berendt
- @maliblatt
- @fdobrovolny
- @akafazov
- @artificial-intelligence
- @scoopex
- @linden
- @matfechner

## Recurring items

- Who transfers the minutes? Who reports in the community call on thursday?
  - @fdobrovolny

- Anything to add to the agenda?

### Housekeeping?

Nothing.

## Agenda

### Keycloak in the IaaS Reference implementation

* The operators part is being documented.
* No of the SCS operators is actually used in production, Zitadel is used instead.
* Keycloak(v19 - legacy) as part of OSISM roles, it is now deprecated and should be deployed standalone.
    * Kubernetes layer added to the workload and managment nodes, for adding additional services such as Keycloak.
    * It is integrated with Keystone.
    * In SCS a [repo](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/container-images) with Keycloak overlay image with extra plugins. https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/container-images/pull/1
    * Not possible to deploy as HA in the OSISM role
    * Propably TLS is also not supported
* As the OSISM role is now deprecated in the new release we need to have a standardized way to deploy Keycloak to the kubernetes layer.
    * Marc will be building a green field deployment in the lab, it is needed that this Keycloak deployment is already solved, before the deployment.
    * Marc can help with knowhow to run keycloak on a larger scaleout scenario in kubernetes, configuration automation and migration from the Jboss runtime to Quarkus.
* AI: @fkr - schedule a meeting for next week to address the deployment of Keycloak

### Update by OSISM on the various items they're working on
- Blogpost published
    - https://scs.community/tech/2023/11/21/confidential-computing-in-digital-sovereign-environments/
- Confidentional Computing (SGX)
    - DevStack deployed for testing
- Preparation of next stable/2023.2 branch @ Kolla
    - More features from the next release in order to prevent backporting.
    - After the christmas break first test build images.
- Testinfra support in Ansible collections
    - First big PR for support of unit tests.
    - Migration of documentation of the roles to the new docs.
    - Finalize support of testinfra in the OSISM CLI
- a lot of docs & bugfixes in the Cookiecutter
    - Lot of docs added for the setup and others
    - Fixed running Cookiecutter in CI/CD vs normal env
- MVP @ Kyndryl
    - Workshop last week
    - 3 Node environment on IBM cloud
    - Config repo ready and first bootstrap and deployment of first nodes.
- Tested domain manager role
    - Fixed an issue with login into the Horizon

### Hardware Blueprints

* External users want a blueprint on how the new cloud environment should look like from the hardware point, with recomendation for different sizes.
* There has been many attempts at documenting this, however this is still not something presentable.
* This should have different recomanded sizes.
* Would be nice to have this until the R6 release.
* Should be part of the [Deployment Examples](https://docs.scs.community/docs/category/deployment-examples/)
    * 5G Campus - https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/docs/pull/87/files
    * There has been some document from artcodix, regarding their setup
* AI: @fkr - meeting with @berendt - interview format for recomanded setup
* Idea to have a recomanded rack design and hardware for SCS deployment.

#### Cloud in a Box - CiaB

#### Production Landscapes


### Role Standard

Standard draft: [PR#378](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/378)

- current state: WIP, sensible mix of current upstream roles and the stable part of the [ongoing upstream RBAC rework](https://governance.openstack.org/tc/goals/selected/consistent-and-secure-rbac.html)
- **Q: [do we need a dedicated auditor role?](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/blob/standard-roles/Standards/scs-0303-v1-standard-roles.md#open-questions)**
    - (not part of upstream roles, would be limited 'reader' role)
    - "which information returned by the OpenStack APIs is considered sensitive data?"
    - is the granularity of OpenStack's RBAC even fine enough to differentiate here with roles?
        - there is doubt about it because you cannot regulate individual properties in response bodies through RBAC policies
    - **A:** hard to find one-size-fits-all standard for this as the requirements vary between use cases, it's hard to regulate the exact information with the coarse RBAC granularity

### Domain Manager Standard

- Christian reported problems with Horizon, @markus-hentsch didn't test Horizon yet with the current standard draft
- @markus-hentsch is on it in [#383](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/issues/383)
    - restoring normal functionality for non-domain-managers is WIP but almost done in [PR#384](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/384)
    - researching the Horizon code to identify means for adjusting Horizon to offer proper Domain Manager functionality (CRUD for projects, users etc.) is WIP
    - currently, Horizon does not offer CRUD for IAM resources for non-admins, which we would need to enable for Domain Managers
- **Q: do we actually need Domain Manager functionality in Horizon? should we continue investigating here?**
    - @berendt pointed out that we don't give full API access to Domain Managers and don't plan to give them Horizon access at all currently, they only act with the Keystone API
    - AI: @fkr will write e-mail to public cloud SIG and invite @markus-hentsch
        - happnes every two weeks, should be discussed there to gather feedback

### (optional) current CiaB Work (@scoopex et al.)    


* Log file for the installation with final status
* The Cloud-In-A-Box repository and its branch can be specified as kernel parameters,
  this simplifies development roundtrip for CIAB
* Any network interface can now be used
* General stabilizations to reduce the susceptibility to errors
* Better documentation for users
