# 2023-09-13

## Participants (preferably github handles)

- @o-otte
- @ppkuschy
- @flyersa
- @artificial-intelligence
- @gndrmnn
- @sbstnnmnn
- @jnull
- @fkr
- @mbuechse
- @frosty-geek
- @maliblatt
- @markus-hentsch
- @jschoone

## Recurring items

- Who is presenting in weekly community call and transforming hedgedoc to minutes in GitHub?
  - @artificial-intelligence
- Anything to add to the agenda?

## Agenda

### Housekeeping

- Checking AIs of last week

### Standards / Open PRs

#### PR [standards/#314](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/314) (Standardize image name and source urls)

- <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/314#discussion_r1319686593>
- @mbuechse is going to address the minor issue of the name of the kube-image
- then it is going to be merged in draft stage

#### PR [standards/#323](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/323) (Volume Types)

- merged

#### Issue [issues/#184](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/184) (Domain Manager)

(as there has been no clear answer yet to whether this topic is limited to either IaaS or IAM track, it is included here)

- current work (policy file adjustments) put into a standard draft
  - <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/commit/6536313688e593a5aabc58fb1eff3000751826b7>
  - is the PR to be done against `Drafts/` or `Standards/` directly?
    - @fkr: `Drafts/` is obsolete: "The pull request MUST add exactly one SCS document, in the Standards folder. In the proposal phase, the document number MUST be replaced with xxxx in the file name. The major version MUST be 1." ([scs-0001](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/blob/main/Standards/scs-0001-v1-sovereign-cloud-standards.md))
  - no PR yet (contents still WIP, no testing script yet)
- other standards implement testing scripts, this should too?
  - would it be legit to require admin API account for testing? (i.e. are conformance tests limited to non-admin user accounts?)
    - this could be used to create temporary domains and domain-manager users for testing and verifying the separation (idea: script would authenticate between different domains and users it created itself to verify the scoping)
    - @fkr: for existing clouds admin account is not feasible, user account only for external checking
      - alternative: admin script that is to be executed by the cloud provider and results file uploaded to SCS for validation
    - _AI @fkr: connect @markus-hentsch with AOV and art codix via e-mail_

### Release Engineering R5

- 6.0.0b will be cut
- When to cut final 6.0.0

### vexxhost magnum api

- where are the docs?
  - how is it installed
  - _AI @fkr: before release: check with @berendt that docs are available and / or linked to_
- lightning talk by vexxhost as part of the community call
  - _AI @fkr: talk with @berendt about contact to vexxhost_
  