# 2023-07-05

## Participants (preferably github handles)

* @master-caster
* @artificial-intelligence
* @maxwolfs
* @matfechner
* @fkr
* @flyersa
* @mbuechse
* @markus-hentsch
* @ppkuschy
* @jnull
* @nadja234
* @berendt
* @horazont (late to the party)

## Recurring items
- Who is presenting in weekly community call and transforming etherpad to minutes in GitHub?
    - @mbuechse
- Anything to add to the agenda?

## Agenda

### Housekeeping

- No meeting next week!
    - @flyersa suggests to schedule a coffee session
- IaaS Breakout Session tomorrow at 09:05 on Volume Types!


### Standard images: [PR 314](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/314)

- Please review!
- mainly [scs-0104-v1-standard-images.md](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/blob/update-scs-0102/Standards/scs-0104-v1-standard-images.md)
    - dedicated standard for the list of mandatory/recommended/suggested images (formerly, only a declaration of intent)
    - removed CentOS 8, included Alma 8/9
- open
    - ~~update/split test script~~ (done)
    - can we drop Alma (proposal by fkr)
        - Decision: drop it
    - ~~should we drop the whole suggested list except Cirros (proposal by fkr)~~ (dropped the whole list including Cirros following suggestion by @osfrickler)

### OpenStack image manager and image lifecycle

- how to proceeed with OpenStack Image Manager Image Definitions?
    - they should note from which part of the standard an image comes: mandatory vs. recommended
    - lifecycle of image needs to be transparent to the end-customer via metadata
    - should images be deleted once they are no longer in the standard? (_the standard does not state anything to that effect_)
    - Decision:
        - Split Image Definition from OpenStack Image Manager Code (already in progress)
        - Image Definitions should be grouped by environments (not OS family/distribution)
            - mandatory
            - recommended
            - ...

- Problem with BSI C5?
    - raised by @jnull
    - Customer needs to be able to choose which images are available
    - @berendt points out: this feature is present in the OpenStack Image Manager
    - @berendt and @jnull will have a session on this and @berendt will make sure this is properly documented

- add guide for getting started with initial rollout using OpenStack Image Manager and Flavor Manager within the documentation as general guide


### SSD flavor standardisation

- KaaS needs SSD flavors for reasonable etcd performance.
- Is this sufficient to derive a need to standardise SSD flavors as mandatory in IaaS?
    - YES, because the KaaS ref-impl should work on certified IaaS. Even though an SCS-certified IaaS on its own does not need SSD flavors, we want to cater for the expectation that users may want to be able to deploy the KaaS ref-impl on a certified IaaS even if the CSP itself does not offer KaaS.


### Overflow Slot Monday - July 10th

- continue unfinished business from this session
    - Standard flavors: [#267](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/issues/267), [PR 319](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/319)
    - Flavor naming and aliases [#228](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/issues/228): use case and relevance vs. pushing for discoverability
- participants 
    - @mbuechse
    - @berendt
    - @artificial-intelligence
    - @josephineSei
    - ...
