# 2023-02-08
## Participants (preferably github handles)
* @o-otte
* @fkr
* @matfechner
* @tibeer
* @jschoone
* @ra-beer
* @berendt
* @garloff
* @maliblatt
* @felix.huettner
* @ppkuschy
* @frosty-geek
* @jnull
* @horazont
* @itrich

## Recurring items
* Who is presenting in weekly community call and transforming etherpad to minutes in GitHub?
   @matfechner

* Anything else to add to the agenda?

## Agenda

### Security Groups Performance Bandwidth
 * [neutron/BUG#1996593](https://bugs.launchpad.net/neutron/+bug/1996593)
 * Plusserver tests: Happens without QoS, no DPDK
 * VM2VM (on same Hypervisor) 6Gbps, w/o SecGroup ~20Gbps (w/ MTU 8942)
 * STACKIT: Better performance observed, with security groups
 * iptables_hybrid vs. openvswitch fw driver?
 * Referencing --remote security groups is expensive (with OvS - iptables)
 * Analyzing further @ PS ...

### OVN/OVS vs. ML2/OvS
 * octavia --provider ovn works very nicely in preserving client IPs
  - very nice for k8s LB in front of ingress
  - using ovn as SDN is default in our testbed (thus both amphora and ovn provider
    available for octavia)
  - but we have not mandated ovn as SDN, so we can't rely on ovn being available
 * needs to be figured out how terraform handles choosing the non default provider
  - dito for capo and occm

* IaC integration of loadbalancer provider type
  * [Ansible/CloudLbaaS:](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/openstack/cloud/loadbalancer_module.html)
  * [Terraform Loadbalancer:](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/terraform-provider-openstack/openstack/latest/docs/resources/lb_loadbalancer_v2)
     - there is a loadbalancer_provider argument for Terraform)
  
* support ovn loadbalancer health monitor support - possible only the glueing piece is missing [loadbalancer health monitor](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/ovn-nb.5.html#Load_Balancer_Health_Check_TABLE)
 Action Item *@fkr:** take this into a story and follow up on that

* [limitations in the ovn octavia provider:](https://docs.openstack.org/ovn-octavia-provider/latest/admin/driver.html#limitations-of-the-ovn-provider-driver)


### Discuss use of MAAS

[OSISM/issue](https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/427)
* Initial provisioning done with MaaS by PS and Wavecon
- bifrost/ironic might be an option in the future (@wavecon), but not short-term
* ironic in use by betacloud
* Enrico using it for "his" OSISM deployment
* two netboxes is ugly
* yaook uses ironic
- avoid depending on another sizable ecosystem

* bifrost is only used for the initial provisioning of the control plane, not for the management of the resources nodes (storage, compute, network, ..), our (OSISM) experience with bifrost is mixed, we would not recommend it
* Ironic is integrated with OSISM to provide bare-metal systems to customers and to deploy resource nodes
* in OSISM other solutions for bare-metal provisioning for control nodes/resource nodes are not exclusive, anything can be taken for it (Foreman, MAAS, Cobbler, Spacewalk, ..)
* Kayobe (StackHPC) also works with Ironic
* CERN uses Ironic
* MaaS comes with nice UI
* MaaS licensing challenges?
- [MAAS/Licence](https://github.com/maas/maas/blob/master/LICENSE)
- [Compatible with SCS OSS Health Check?:](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/blob/main/Design-Docs/OSS-Health.md)
* If not adopting MaaS, we could still document how MaaS fits into OSISM deployment

### How to best run OpenStack trademark tests

 [OSISM/issue#425](https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/425)

 Action Item *@fkr* & *@berendt* & *@garloff*: refinement user story 


### Check if it is possible to deactivate the sever admin password in Nova

[OSISM/issue#377](https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/377)
   - The password shown by openstack server show is confusing (as it's unused almost everywhere)
 * Is there relevant usage? (Maybe cloudbase init for windoze?)
   - Changing such defaults coming from upstream:
 * Preferred to effect change upstream
 * If that fails, but we have good reasons, we need to document these in an ADR


### Image Crawler is ready, but integration is pending.
  - Check again next time. *@ra-beer* will reach out to *@berendt*
    to gather further information. [OSISM/openstack-image-manager#345](https://github.com/osism/openstack-image-manager/issues/345)
  - PS has their own image-crawler integration, integration into openstack 
    image-manager has thus no high prio for PS
  - SCS wants a generic solution in image-manager for tracking and pulling upstream 
    images
     * image-crawler?
     * distronaut?
  - Missing:

     * Final steps for integration (e.g. CLI)
     * Clear understanding / commitments for maintenance
   - Current situation @ PS:
     * Image crawler generates input/config for openstack-image-manager
   - Clarification with *@berendt*, *@costelter*, *@fkr*

