# 2024-06-12

## Participants

- @gndrmnn
- @josephineSei
- @fkr
- @janhorstmann
- @horazont
- @rhizoet
- @kgube
- @gtema
- @mbuechse
- @NotTheEvilOne
- @o-otte
- @maliblatt
- @artificial-intelligence
- @lindenb1
- @sbstnnmnn
- @garloff
- @flyersa
- @cah-patrickthiem
- @frosty-geek
- @matfechner
- @matofeder (since 10:20)

## Housekeeping

- Report in this weeks community call: @artifical-intelligence
- Responsible for the minutes (writing and transfer to github): @fkr

- For the 19th of June some is needed to facilitate this meeting, since @fkr is at the Open Source Day of IHK Berlin
- Who is up for facilicating:

## Agenda

### Supported IaaS (OpenStack) Service List (@josephineSei)

- <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/528>
- PR: <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/587>
  - List of Supported Services contains some services, that are discussable:
    - Cloudkitty
    - Heat
    - Skyline
    - ?
  - What should users expect from these supported services?
    - that standards refering to overall IaaS also include them (== all services can be enabled to fulfill the standards?)
    - that these services have been tested for integration?
    - that these services are part of the reference implementation? (imho that might be too much)
      - "supported" in the standardization sense can not make statements on the reference implementation
      - meaning of "supported" in standardization may be limited to ensuring that our standards don't conflict with these
        - we don't break them with our standards!
        - renaming "supported" to "recommended"? No: "recommended" has a stronger meaning ...
        - we originally wanted to separate between
                    1. (mandatory) you need these APIs to have a scs-compliant cloud
                    2. (supported) you may use these APIs, they can be integrated with scs (e.g. work with the scs role standard)
                    3. (unsupported) you may use these APIs on your own risk
    - hints and recommendations for the implementation may be added to the implementation notes
- Generic discussion: We do standardize concrete APIs (the ones that come from OpenStack or K8s or CAPI) to make the standards useful -- alternative implementations for services are possible, but a completely different set of technologies will unlikely implement the SCS APIs.
- We need to use the correct terminology "OpenStack Compute API" as opposed to "Nova"
  - Complexity: These APIs are huge, with lots of optional and deprecated pieces
    - Need to work through these, tedious
    - The OpenStack Interop Guideline tests ("OpenStack powered XXX") are a good starting point for this
      - This is a fairly small set, we need to add to this to produce something that is really useful ("this is the motivation for SCS standardization")

### DNS and OVN (@fkr)

- I want to revisit the topic that we covered in last weeks Lean SCS Operator Coffee
  - OVN intercepts DNS queries (in order to resolve nova names) in ways that are not always welcome
- We established in the Lean SCS Operator Coffee that the behaviour which can be observed with OVN that certain requests are intercepted is something we'd like to make configurable on a *per-tenant (or per tenant-network) base*. Let's see how we can tackle this upstream.
  - Avoid neutron to create these flows? Risky!
  - Avoid neutron to create the DNS entries? Less risky!
    - neutron/plugins/ml2/drivers/ovn/mech_driver/ovsdb/ovn_db_sync.py
  - ToDo: Create blueprint/spec and propose this feature ...
    - Need to identify someone who can do it
    - Suggestion: Describe problem and thoughts how this could be addressed and send to openstack-discuss asking for ideas and feedback (we're probably already too late for 2024.2 according to regular upstream processes)
- See this analysis by @markus-hentsch and @horazont: <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/229#issuecomment-2066368242>
