# 2024-09-11

## Participants

- @josephineSei
- @matusjenca2
- @o-otte
- @gndrmnn
- @markus-hentsch
- @scoopex
- @artificial-intelligence
- @fkr
- @kgube
- @NotTheEvilOne
- @gtema
- @janhorstmann
- @berendt
- @sbstnnmnn
- @cah-patrickthiem
- @rhizoet
- @garloff
- @jschoone

## Housekeeping

- Report in this weeks community call: @artificial-intelligence
- Responsible for the minutes (writing and transfer to github): @fkr

## Agenda

### Release 7 Release Notes?

- <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/release-notes/pull/27>
- Are we happy with this?

### Domain Manager Standard (@markus-hentsch)

PR for changing draft to stable: [standards#586](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/586)

- upstreaming almost done
  - feature merged! -> will be available natively starting with OpenStack 2024.2
  - upstream documentation and tempest test additions currently under review
- SCS R7 will be based on 2024.1, hence native upstream integration will not be available yet
  - R7 does not incorporate the Domain Manager Standard (it is still draft)
  - with a future release (R8+), native integration will take over and the Domain Manager standard will be discontinued
    - issue tracking the planned discontinuation: [issues#723](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/issues/723)

Q: due to the frozen R7 release lacking the Domain Manager, should we discard the SCS downstream standard/implementation of the Domain Manager altogether and jump on native implementation in the next release?
A: Standard is still relevant with respect to the concept, as this does not change. Our implementation with `policy.yaml` will become obsolete with 2024.2 -- move the description of implementation and a note that the downstrweam implementation should be dropped with the upgrade to 2024.2 to the "test and implementation notes" document. Merge this standard as stable as soon as this is done. Could be included as a recommended requirement in SCS-compatible IaaS-v5 (late Oct/early Nov).

### Role Standard (@markus-hentsch)

PR: [standards#590](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/590)  
Docs PR: [docs#240](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/docs/pull/240) (WIP)

- lots of updates due to progress upstream
- would make SRBAC mandatory (enforce_scope, enforce_new_defaults)
  - those are still optional in 2024.1 but default in 2024.2
- can now use streamlined default roles (reader, member, admin) without issues
- does not clash with SCS downstream implementation of Domain Manager anymore
- only Octavia needs special treatment to use a upstream-provided but non-default policy template to incorporate the streamlined roles

AI: ~~CSPs please test enforce_scope/enforce_new_default (see standard) and the corresponding [Octavia policy config](https://github.com/openstack/octavia/blob/master/etc/policy/keystone_default_roles_scoped-policy.yaml).~~
@markus-hentsch look into the latest patchsets and reports and re-check if there any new blockers

### Volume Backup Standard (@markus-hentsch)

PR: [standards#567](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/567)

- recap: discussion around mandating feature availability vs. mandating separate storage for backups
  - discussions resulted in favoring feature availability
  - the standard now makes providing the Volume Backup API a MUST and using a separate storage backend for this a SHOULD

AI: needs reviews (preferrably from CSPs) and approval.
AI @fkr: reach out to CSPs

### Secure Connections Standard (@markus-hentsch)

PR: [standards#548](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/548)

- some parts of the standard mandate things that cannot be tested from outside
  - e.g., MUST use TLS for internal DB traffic
- our approach seems to have changed a bit since the standard draft was first written
  - we view OpenStack more like a reference implementation and started referencing its APIs instead of its components in more recent standards
  - Q: can we even make assumptions about the inner structure of an SCS cloud anymore?

Opinions voiced in the meeting (does not mean this was consensus among the participants):

Q: should the MUSTs concerning the internal infrastructure which cannot be tested from outside be demoted to SHOULDs?
A: The fact that we don't mandate the internal structure changes the requirement into "all internal network connections must be encrypted".
A: Not necessarily need to downgrade from MUST to SHOULD, even if we can not test from the outside (we need promises from the operators then and the right to do audits)
Q: What is the status os encrypting all network traffic?
A: Probably not for the replication traffic in ceph ...
A: Maybe an exception for separated, trusted networks (or for the replication of already encrypted volumes)

---

### Mandatory and Supported APIs on IaaS Level (@josephineSei)

PR: <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/587>

- Security SIG wanted to have S3 as mandatory (replacing Swift)
  - do we then still need Swift ("Object Store" API) in supported?
    - if we require S3 to be present, are there deployment with additional Object Stores?
  - testing might not differ between (swift) object store and s3 object storage - they are too similar
  - Agreement?:

### LAST CALL: Availability Zones (@josephineSei)

PR: <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/640>

- no reviews from CSPs since last call :(
- reviews from @artificial-intelligence and @markus-hentsch also require CSP input
- List of Reviewers:

### Upstream contribution of subnet NTP server injection (@kgube)

Issue: <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/231>
PR: <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/577>

- We previously (2024-08-28) discussed the possibility of contributing a feature to inject NTP servers into subnets
- Q: should we have a breakout-session to discuss the specifics?
