# 2025-02-10

### Participants

- @fkr
- @berendt
- @garloff
- @matofeder

Excused:
- @jschoone

### Housekeeping

#### AIs from last meeting

- Measuring inactivity thresholds: Document approach (as a standard) -> @matofeder
    - Find inactive repos to archive
    - Find inactive members
  - PR - Draft of Procedural doc: SCS GitHub Organization - Management of Inactive Users and Repositories
      - https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/878
      - Proposal:
          - Inactive User
              - A member of the SCS GitHub organization who has not engaged in any of the following activities within the past **365** days:
                - Creating or commenting on pull requests (PRs) or issues within SCS GitHub repositories.
                - Pushing commits to any repository within the organization.
                - Participating in code reviews or other interactions within the SCS GitHub organization.
                - Quick discussion: Mailing list or Matrix comments? -> Do not count as activities that grant github rights
          - Stale Repository
              -  A repository within the SCS GitHub organization that has not experienced any of the following activities for a continuous period of **365** days:
                - Commits or code merges.
                - Issue creation or comments.
                - Pull request submissions or reviews.
                     - Do not count auto-generated PRs (renovate/dependabot) which are ignored
                - Updates to documentation or other repository content
                - No Codeowners left
        - Create the warning 30d ahead of time (the 365d)


          - Tools:
            - Inactive User
              - https://github.com/orgs/SovereignCloudStack/people
                  - Export contains last_active column - it shows the date of last user activity on GitHub, not in SCS org
              - GitHub API
                  - Events
                      - API restriction: up to 300 events, only events created within the past 90 days will be included
                  - Members:
                      - does not contain ORG activity info
              - https://github.com/peter-murray/inactive-users-action/
                  - Outdated
                  - Get-user-email does not work
                  - Gathers number of commits, issues, issueComments, prComments
                  - Does not filter org members! i.e. report contains all contributors -> additional post-processing needed
                  - Example report for SCS org: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/github-manager/actions/runs/13230030197
              - https://github.com/github/platform-samples/tree/master/api/ruby/find-inactive-members
                  - Outdated
                  - Clear output based on https://github.com/github/platform-samples/tree/master/api/ruby/find-inactive-members#how-inactivity-is-defined
                  - Email gathering works
                  - Filter org members
          - Stale repos
            - https://github.com/github/stale-repos
                - report example: https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/github-manager/issues/332

- SCS-conformance needs to be top and center for our SCS CSPs on our main page, may attract more CSPs -> @matofeder
    - postponed to the next PB meeting

#### Report from Forum SCS-Standards (@fkr)

- I'd like to introduce this as a recurring item to make sure, we have an information flow between Forum and Project Board

#### Mailing list docu (@garloff & @fkr)
- @fkr will shoot over to @garloff

### Git Repo Management

- Follow-Up to last weeks item
    - What to do with "Open Operations" and the Manifesto? (@fkr)
        - @garloff to search for active participants / drivers
        
### Regular team calls (@garloff)

- Set them up ... @matofeder (Containers), @garloff (Ops/Sec/IAM), @berendt (IaaS)

### SCS R8 in March? (@garloff)

- Need to start with identifying owners, announcing, betas/RCs, ...
- OSISM wants to do v9 ("SCS-R8") in April, not sure it it's before Easter break
    - Needs alignment with OSISM customers
    - to be discussed in IaaS call (and possibly elsewhere)
    - should be clear within the next 14d

### state of github-manager (@garloff)

- It does not seem to add Org members any more (despite new github PAT)
    - @ksamaschke, @saifbilal81 not added
    - @curx, @dagdamman, @dmackjh, @kilianischtschuk, @rleibjh, @testingghpermissions not removed
- Nothing obvious in the logs
- Anybody aware of trouble?
- No, need to debug .... (@garloff)

### Hackathon communication
- Should be announced, so people can prepare (travel, collecting topics, ...)
- @garloff to check back with @fkr (and FAU)