## 2025-03-31

### Participants

- @berendt
- @matofeder
- @garloff
- @fkr

### Agenda

#### Misc
- @matofeder will miss the next meeting on April 7, 2025 (vacation)

#### Report from Forum SCS-Standards
- @fkr will send email with minutes also to Project Board (@jschooone and @matofeder)

#### CODEOWNERS (@matofeder)
- eMail draft 
    - https://input.scs.community/uEnrO46RQNyf3TifKy0zog#
    - TODO @matofeder: How to handle repos without CODEOWNERS?
    - Mention that those will bw considered stale
- Does it work?
    `CODEOWNERS @org/project-board`
    - https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/github-manager/blob/main/CODEOWNERS
    - should add project board members as reviewers ...
- How to proceed?
    - Send mail

#### Release 8 (@garloff, 25')
- State of [release notes](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/release-notes/pull/30)
    - K8s versions?
        - Need to have 1.31
            - github release needed (@jschoone, @matofeder)
        - Should have 1.32
            - Maybe need to mark as TechPreview? (@matofeder to ask @jschoone)
            - Should be tested!
    - Upgrades from R7 to R8
        - Manual install of ORC needed, should be mentioned (@matofeder)
    - ORC image kind
        - @matofeder will explain
- State of [press release draft](https://input.scs.community/VFsKu9cSSkuV7mSh_vp5Ww?both)
    - Discussion
        - ORC is an upstream change (CAPO) - done
        - Add increasing digisov as topic (@garloff)
    - Moving to github (@garloff, EOB today)
- Between now and Apr 9: Do the release
    - Tagging repos (@all)
        - harbor already done (@matofeder)
        - CS, dN monitoring, ... (@matofeder, @jschoone)
        - OSISM (@berendt)
        - TODO: Mention tags in release notes (@all)
    - Image build and pushes (@berendt)
