## 2025-10-06

### Housekeeping

- Community Meeting moved to Oct. 10th
- On Nov. 10th we should discuss how to proceed with Zuul etc. (and invite @depressiveRobot)

### Participants

- @fkr
- @garloff
- @jschoone
- @matofeder (from 14:30)

### Agenda

#### How to proceed with https://scs.community

- sponsor: @fkr
- Already done: Unrouted employees
- To do: Move blogs, news, articles to new site
- If easily possible: URL redirection ...

#### Upcoming elections Project Board 

- sponsor: @fkr
- prepare: candidates, invitation to introduce themselves
- many voters inactive
	- ask voters to register "I am interested in the SCS community and would like to vote"
	- try to gain new contributors (SCS mailing list does not reflect our community that well any more)
		- LinkedIn, Matrix, Mastodon, Mailing list, ...
	- current state: intersection of github and scs.sovereignit.de members
		- Idea: New group on UCS?
			- Easy to implement
			- Not tied to activity on github, not easily transparent to all
		- Alternative idea: Do a round of cleanups on github users (acc. to [scs-0006](https://docs.scs.community/standards/scs-0006-v1-organization-management))
			- Anyone that's active may vote plus those that respond to the email (and add the latter to UCS and github if not there already)


#### Aftermath R9 release
- sponsor: @garloff
- Release date (and last PR) pushed a few times, not ideal
- PR: https://www.sovereigncloudstack.org/announcements/release9/
- Reported by Linux-Magazin and iX / heise online
- No release notes yet (OSISM, ClusterStacks)
	- OSISM 10.0 not even out? (9.4.0 seems to exist)
	- Tagging?
- To Do: Fixing this up
	- Cluster Stacks: AI @garloff, @jschoone
	- AI @garloff to ping @berendt
		- team meets, ref impl status discussion
- How to plan R10
	- "Installable software needs to exist!"
	- Reference implementation**s**
	- Align release dates?
	- Installation for commercial purposes should go through integrators
		- Ask for integrator support to craft release
		- DIY alternative should continue to exist


