# 2022-11-11

## Participants

* @reqa
* @matfechner
* @JuanPTM
* @jnull

## Topics
* Challenges with extending Keystone apache config to add customers dynamically (i.e. what's bad about the currently apache based Keystone why we may need to look into nginx and/or Zitadel as an alternative).

## Disscussion
* @reqa: Looked into apache graceful restart and found out that this doesn't work with WSGI in a way that doesn't kill existing connections (without wsgi it should work, but not with wsgi).
* @reqa: Q: Crazy isea, but isn't staged replacement of services something that K8S is really gfood at? @jnull: A: We would need something like ISTIO to manage this.
* @reqa: May also be an architectural bad idea, potentially suffering from a Hen and egg issue with IAM solution run on top of Kubernetes

* How to add a new realm to the keystone wsgi-config: Is there a chance to achieve this in a staged way with an haproxy in front so that existing sessions are not broken during a sequential restart of keystone/apache?
* @reqa: How would we technically roll out new wsgi-configs? Ansible?

* discussion about modifying configuration on a oidc federated keystone/keycloak: @reqa: Q: Guess we need something like a configuration service for ths to orchestrate all the required changes across technological components. @jnull: A:  yes, e.g. 1. Add new realm to Keycloak, 2. create/coordinate OIDC federation setup handshake between SCS realm and remote IdP, 3. Create roles/groups there), 4. Create default project in Keystone, extend Keystone/apache config to new the KS domain up to new KC realm. We would probably need some SCS home grown containerized service written in go or so for that.

* @reqa Q: Has the experiment with Zitadel already proceed? A: @jnull & @matfechner worked on it on devstack
