# 2023-01-13
# Participants
* @matfechner
* @reqa
* @JuanPTM
* @jnull
    
## Topics
### Certifcate  issue in testbed
* https://github.com/osism/testbed/pull/1404/files
* https://github.com/osism/testbed/tree/main/contrib/ownca

### Re-organization of the Weekly
* IAM part splits of as Team SIG IAM, without the OPS part
 
### How to proceed with diving into Zitadel
1. Test-drive with Zitadel (either minicube or docker-compose style)
2. Upvote implementation of lacking feature

* Starting Points for Zitadel:
    * https://github.com/zitadel
    * https://zitadel.com/docs/self-hosting/deploy/compose
    * We can start w/o TLS
    * @jnull offers to provide access to a staging setup (non-admin), with proper certificate K8S, ingress, TLS termination etc. -> just drop an email if we need that or get stuck.

* Advantage of Zitadel (in a nut shell): Better matches the concept of Keystone, where you only have one domain. Zitadel doesn't have multiple Realms, you have a single endpoint and it does all the "routing" to the correct domain "automagically".  -- From the perspective of services like Horizon this gets your rid of the need to solve the problem of choosing the right customer relam (i.e. you don't need to implement custom per-customer login pages).

* Zitadel Architecture:
    * Organization: (users, clients, roles) from the user database are pulled into the project
    * Project: abstraction -> can be provided as "base project" with the clients all set up
    * Clients can be inherited from other projects
    * Roles can also be inherited from other projects, but this may not be suitable for our use case

* Generally:
    * configuration of RBAC rules consistency across the full stack (Gardner, OpenStack, IdP) will be a challenge
    * Out of band reconciliation-tool required to create resources, projects etc. (e.g. running in a reconciliation loop every 5 min).
    * Customer needs a place (and interface) to put their information
    * Customers can use Zitadel to do this self-service (for the first step) but in a second step we need a different "Meta-tool" that provisions this across all stack components, i.e. also in Zitadel.
    * Possible improvement beyond this "loop" approach: Zitadel has a message queue and "actions" (e.g. for the user model: create, pre-auth. post-auth), can be implemented in JS-Code, can be used to do a web-call to do some pub-sub style
    * Separate challenge: pre-defining RBAC

Appointment between @matfechner and @reqa on Monday 11:30 to solve/discuss https://github.com/osism/testbed/pull/1404#issuecomment-1328745250
