# 2023-01-23
## Participants
* @matfechner
* @reqa
* @JuanPTM
* Florian & Max from Zitadel (@fforootd  and @mffap I guess)

## Topics
* Feature request: Device authorization grant   ( https://github.com/zitadel/oidc/issues/264 )
* Why is Authorization Code Grant not eenogh for the SCS OpenStack CLI use case?
  Why do we need Device authorization grant?
* Architectural overview by Florian:
    * https://zitadel.com/docs/concepts/structure/organizations
    * Multitenancy addressed by the technological solution of "instances"
    * Wavecon may be following the path to use one instance per customer.
    * Within an instance you can have multiple origanizations, which share a trust anchor
    * Zitadel has "Metadata" that can be attached to objects like e.g. organizations
    * Zitadel is pretty "flat", not trying to provide some hierachical model
    * "Granted Projects" can be used to "re-use" a given project originally created in one organization in a different organization
    * Hosted Login screen (i.e. server rendered)
    * Technical details (endpoints, REST, GRPC, terraform): https://zitadel.com/docs/apis/introduction
    * What SCS should look at in the documentation:
        1. management API
        2. authentication API
        3. administration API
    * Concept of "actions" (think: Github actions, Auth0 actions, Keycloak SPI), "event sourced" can be used to call web hooks, e.g.  (that's nicer than what Keycloak currently offers with their "Events", which require polling).
    * Zitadel has a event sourced architecture, so there is no separate "auditing" trail.
    * The events can theoretically be pruned but usually they are kept.
    * In case PII data needs to be removed on a GDPR delete request, the respective accounts get pseudonymized.
    * In cases of security issues, the events can be replayed and correlated.
    * Login can be accessed in two ways:
      1. By accessing the instance level (i.e. central) non-customer-branded login page
      2. By accessing the organization-level branded login page
    * Zitadel is written in go & angular
* Operator question my Mathias:
    * Q: Is Cockroach DB strictly required? Would Galera/MariaDB also be an option?
    * A: Plain PostgreSQL is also an option, but cockroach DB has advantages (replication oder zones and regions)
    * Storage Driver of Zitadel is simply SQL, i.e. no principal road block
    * For SCS this question is probably becoming irrelevant, when we move the IdP from the Management Plane to the CaaS/Kubernetes platform
* SCS shall first start evaluating if Zitadel fits its requirements and simply test with a Personal Access Token (PAT)
* Comparison on the website: https://zitadel.com/blog/zitadel-vs-keycloak
* Recommended mode of contribution: Github PR/issue and "heads up" as Github discussion or on Discord
* Forks are discouraged as Zitadel has very frequent releases and it's hard to keep forks up to level
