# Minutes 2202-12-05

## Participants (github handles preferred)
* @alexander-diab
* @maxwolfs
* @ra-beer
* @fkr
* @aeroflydesign
* @mauhau
* Heiko Krämer
* @manuela-urban
* @itrich


## Agenda
- Proof-of-Concepts
* In Dependence to Partners
** CSPs
** Private Cloud Providern
** IT Service Firms
* Scope and expected Results: When is a PoC successful?
** There are generic criteria, but also (customer-)specific. A check list might be helpful.
*** ...if a relevant customer's application runs on it.
*** It is crucial to understand the customer's real need.
** SCS's value proposition (Interoperability, security as a feature...) should be sharpened. More visibility (not at least findable via Google). The brand is crucial.
** Provide SCS(Cloud-)in-a-box with a clear description what to be expected. With a tutorial and demo application (Nextcloud?).
* Concept and Planning
* Technical and Personel Ressources and Support
- 24 / 7 SLAs : Is that something, which we need to build up? Can we build it up and how?
- Conference participation for outreach 

Alex presents in the community call. 

PoCs:
- Structuring a PoC should include a feature list: Testing of KaaS, CaaS, VMs, 
However, in focus of every PoC should be the central value proposition of interoperability
- Is SCS well positioned as a brand? The brand should be found through the value proposition and vice versa. 
- Cloud-In-A-Box could help to support PoCs. We agreed, that Cloud-In-A-Box use cases are separate PoCs cases, which require a different handling and processing. 
- Before a PoC it should be evaluated with the customer, what is his use case / requirements. What does he intend to do with the software. Along this the PoC should be designed. The SMART query technique could help here. 
- It would be good to have tutorials and a sample application. 
* Terminfinder could be such an app. We could also provide some of our own Apps like the Statuspages. 

Other Comments:
- It was raised, if the value proposition is clear to everybody. That was not the case. 
- An important topic for the market is the certification of environments (which was not on the agenda topics yet)

