### Participants (github handles preferred)
* @maxwolfs
* @manuela-urban
* @berendt
* @o-otte
* @garloff
* @fkr
* @aeroflydesign

### Agenda
Questions posed from an SCS interested software operator:
* market differentiation:
  * Technological Sovereignty
  * Actual contribution to Gaia-X & Structura-X that other Big Tech provider) is unlikely to provide
* How is the GXFS code currently integrated into SCS and what is the likelihood of GXFS becoming the main Gaia-X framework in comparison with others (e.g. Eclipse)?
* How does SCS currently handle security operations, incident response and continuous assurance?
Everyone claims to be GDPR or whatever compliant. How can you make SCS standout from the rest beside the philosophical principles of openness?
* What is your understanding of the upcoming regulatory frameworks with regards to a legal definition of digital sovereignty? Has the EU Commission given any sign on making a stand (and risk WTO challenges) towards such a definition? This is the sort of concrete material that will raise most attention as member states have varying opinions.

We concluded:
* that we have a clear vision and definition of what "digital sovereignity" is and communicate and document this. Besides this there is various other interpretations out there. We consider the OSBA one as the "official" for the moment
* With respect to European legislation, we are aware of anything beyond the initiatives of the IT Planungsrat


Partner Network:
* Description of Services 
* Support Offerings
* Servicepartner on SCS Website 
https://scs.community/de/partners/

We concluded that:
- the listing of service partners is incomplete (e.g.B1 and Plusserver are missing)
- the description of offerings is incomplete and could be sharpened
- we may sharpen the definition of the target audience of our portals and sharpen the messaging accordingly
