# 2022-07-14

## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* felix (@fkr)
* ed (@itrich)
* Oliver Otte (@o-otte)
* Mathias Fechner
* Dirk Loßack
* @berendt
* Arvid

## Recurring items

* Who is presenting in weekly community call?
  * Arvid
 
* Anything else to add to the agenda?


## Agenda

* harbor topic from @berendt
* access to zuul?
* prepare session with ORT (OSS Review Toolkit): what do we want to learn?
* (build ci pipe with ORT (OSS Review Toolkit)?)
* Cloudmon
* IAM?

### Open PRs


## Harbor

@joshmue wrote harbor manifest (https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-harbor) long time ago, but how do we proceed. Now that we have progressed through the last year (and osism has their ownb harbor) and with a harbor maintainer in the scs project the question is how do we proceed.

* query current state with its ci - would it make sense to ci this with zuul?
* fkr will setup call with tim, christian, @joshmue and oliver in CW29
  * we need to think how to provision central services (example: harbor) available to all tenants within a deployed scs infrastructure at the same time a tenant needs to be able to deploy its own harbor
  * vertical services to be deployed centrally as well
  * single-tenant installs for tenants who do not want shared infrastructure


## Access to zuul

* there is no scs zuul, just an osism zuul
* do we want to run along with the osism zuul or have our own zuul (there is funding available for running such test infrastructure) -> moved to bucket list for team iaas, we could even throw the test systems from intel/ampere into that pool to test for specific items

## ORT Session

* https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort

* Questions:
  * Are there any existing frontends? What to do with the results?
  * How does Bosch.IO use ORT? What problems do they solve by using ORT?
  * How to get involved? What topics need more coverage or contributions? Support with our tenders/funding?
  * Any hints to public open source projects that heavily use ORT? Is there already a usage-scenario with zuul? 

## Cloudmon

* ProductBoard -> vision for Cloudmon once Kurt is back from Vacation
  * there is plenty of thought already existing, this should be in user stories
* better documentation needed so that others can jump in - aside Andre
* lightning talk on cloudmon

## IAM

* still in the need for two testbeds
* if this is blocking, Arvid suggest to just use two realms
