# SCS IAM Workshop R4

## When

2022-10-11 starting at 09:00 CEST

## Where

Jitsi: https://conf.scs.koeln:8443/SCS-Tech

Board: https://scrumblr.ethibox.fr/SCS%20IAM%20Workshop%202022

## Timetable:
    
    09:00 - 09:15
    09:15 - 13:00 (there will be breaks in between depending on the discussion flow)
    13:00 - 14:30 Lunch and Batteries re-charge
    14:30 - 16:00
    
## Who?

* Univention
  * Arvid, Juan Pedro
* Wavecon
  * Jeff
* OSISM
   * Mathias
* SCS
  * Kurt
  * fkr
* Gonicus
  * Joshua

## Agenda

This is a proposal. *please* feel free to adjust, comment, extend! That is why it is an etherpad ;)

- Start at 09:00 - arrival, coffee and a bit of chatter before we dive in  
- 09:15 - 13:00 (there will be short breaks in between, depending on the discussion flow)  
        - outline expectations for the day and re-cap the vision of federation in SCS  
        - Vision slides: https://scs.sovereignit.de/nextcloud/apps/files/?dir=/Sovereign%20Cloud%20Stack/Technology/IDM-Workshop-20221011&fileid=128649
        
        
- 13:00 - 14:30 Lunch and batteries re-charge
- 14:30 - 16:00 Finishing discussion and documentation of results


## When was this workshop successful?

* There is a common understanding what "SCS is federated" means
* Epics that should be part of R4 are laid out



### Pile of items - not yet sorted

https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/25

* https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/160
* https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/95

### Info Links regarding OIDC flows and Keycloak "Identity Brokering"
The issue with "Resource Owner Flow" (also calles "Direct Access Grant") and Keycloak "Identity Brokering" https://lists.jboss.org/pipermail/keycloak-user/2017-January/009272.html (found from  https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63523622/direct-access-grant-with-keycloak-using-external-identity-provider-idp )  
An example alternative example "workaround" with "Authentication Code Flow" https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53357741/how-to-perform-oauth-2-0-using-the-curl-cli  
Terminology in Keycloak: https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/index.html#_oidc-auth-flows-direct  



### Notes

Original vision SCS IDM - 4 Goals (refer to slides from Kurt)
 * Keystone manages hierarchies
 * OpenStack Domains (where usermanagement happens)
 * Domains vs. Projects (do the current SCS Operators follow this or was this not transported clearly?)
 * Large customers expect user management to be done in an external directory (not within Keystone)
 * Most of the things happen on the container layer, so that is the more important part of the cake
 * Add DID/SSI to the game

@jnull: Currently only projects work, not domains, because otherwise users become superusers  
@matfechner: Keystone only supports one IdP per Domain, which is why something like KeyCloak has a proxy role currently

-> Goal 1 vs. Goal 0

### Current IAM architecture

https://scs.sovereignit.de/nextcloud/f/128804

https://scs.sovereignit.de/nextcloud/apps/files/?dir=/Sovereign%20Cloud%20Stack/Technology/IDM-Workshop-20221011&fileid=128649

Summary of the current approach so far:

"The current path is to implement a traditional IdP system and maybe at a later stage incorporate the DID in a best effort manner".

### OpenStack Role Management

* more understanding of role management is needed

### Operator IAM

* How is IAM done for the OPS
* Walled Garden (Boundary / Teleport)
* IAM for OPS is derailing our focus

### Discussions

How do machine identities and human users relate to each other?

Question: does it make sense to invest work upstream in keystone?

* current keystone implementation is insufficient
  * not dynamically reconfigurable (apache wsgi limitation)
  * can only have one IdP per domain
    => those two are not a problem if we have an ID broker in place
  * does not have a cleanly separated/isolated/segmented domain admin role defined
     * the correct policy files for this would need to be created (non-trivial task -- shoud definitely *not* be done by each operator individually)
     * complex policy files should not be required for such a (architecturally) straight-forward role -> upstream work required
     * complex policy files are hard to manage and slow down the API
  TODO:
    * Upstream participation https://meetings.opendev.org/#Keystone_Team_Meeting.  Tuesday 15:00 UTC
    * Ask OTC folks how they have addressed this (@fkr to talk to @gtema)
    * Check other OpenStack clouds (OVH, VexxHost, Cleura, StackIT, ...) for domain admin roles (@garloff)

* OpenStack Web-UI insufficiency with IdPs:
  * horizon shows a dropdown for all IdPs
  * skyline even shows all domains
  * worked around by a login page in front of the dashboard @ wavecon

* ID Broker wanted?
  * Adds flexibility
  * With OpenStack CLI/API auth flow you can not select the IDP to be forwarded to
    * Real(TM) brokering would ask all configured IDPs (or know which IDPs to ask?)
    * @arequate has never seen this before
    * would domain-qualified (name@domain type or \\domain\name) usernames help?
    * 1:1 relationship b/w issuer(IdP) and domain allows this to be secure (by not accepting claims for wrong domains)
  * Also allows Containers (and PaaS) to use the same ID federation (without hardwiring those to keystone or somehow get keystone to act as OIDC provider)

=> Yes, we need one  
=> TODO: Research on real ID brokering

Next steps:
  * Consider an SSI/DID-first path forward?
  * Create (research) epics/user stories
  * Write down desired workflow(s) of DevOps teams to benchmark our solution against (detail goals from vision slides)

Specific focus on container layer needed!

Avoid only looking at short-term goals, restrained by existing technology/architecture.
Let's understand where we want to go (long-term) first!

### SSI/DID option considerations

Adds complexity and removes complexity, avoids central IdP/ID broker as SPoFs: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gWfAIYXcyH4


### Epics

Template: As <USER> I want to do <XYZ> so I can achieve <ABC>  
Focus on outcomes: What does it enable? (i.e. <ABC>)

Personas: Defined in Design-Docs

* SCS project (SCS OSBA project team)
* SCS developer (Someone developing code/doc/integration/standards ... of the SCS reference impl)
* SCS Operator (someone who runs an SCS cloud environment)
* SCS Integrator (Building a SCS environment to be handed over to an operator)
* SCS Customer (Someone who develops/runs workloads on SCS environments, typically a DevOps team)
* SCS End-User (Someone who uses some application/workload running on top of SCS environments)


Consume well-known public IdP:

* As a SCS customer I want to come with a public well known IdP (google, github, ...) and just sign up with that and start using a SCS cloud :)  -- Sidenote: Requires significant effort for providers for fraud detection, T&C acceptance ...
* As an SCS Developer, I want to instantly be able to login on my newly deployed testbed with an existing IdP, e.g. GitHub, (or SSI)
* As an SCS Developer, I want to be able to login on the dev- and testing hardware with an existing IdP, e.g. GitHub, (or SSI)


* As a SCS customer I want to be able to assign identities to workloads, so the workloads can access cloud services without using static, manually maintained credentials


* As a SCS customer I want to access PaaS cloud services like Harbor, DBaaS etc. with my own identity (+consistent login UX without passwords for each service)


* As SCS Customer, I want to have the ability to create and delete OpenStack projects, so I can reflect the structure of my various Dev Teams and Dev Projects and segregate them (for billing, isolation, security, ...) [keystone]


* As SCS Customer, I want to have the ability to create users, assign them to groups and assign roles (rights/authorizations) to the groups/users, so I can control who can see (R) and who can modify (CUD) resources. [keystone]
* As a SCS Customer I want to have administrator rights for my resources to define roles and map them to access privileges
* As Customer, I want to have the ability to have the same roles defined on multiple SCS clouds. (Could be standardized or solved via central management.) [Long-term]
* As a SCS Customer I want to extend the role mappings to my needs, across technical boundaries of individual SCS components. (i.e. Keystone, Identity Broker) [cross-component configuration / policies]
* As a SCS Customer I want to be sure that the roles and their mapping is consistent across SCS components within one SCS environment (cloud). This may require periodic reconciliation and reporting inconsistencies to the customer. [higher-level authorization management] [long-term]
* As SCS developer, I want to avoid dealing with complex and hard to get right keystone policies to define conceptually easy roles, so I avoid screwing up (and potentially creating security issues if I do).
* As an SCS Developer (architect), I want to understand the limitations of existing keystone roles, so I understand what we need to develop to offer Customers the ability to manage their projects and users.


* As SCS Customer, I want to have the ability to do the management of users in an external IDM system (Identity Provider), that I have anyway and create a mapping of attributes/claims there to the roles.
* As a SCS Customer, I want to be able to define that users that match a certain criteria in my IdP are mapped to a certain set of access rights
* As SCS Customer, I want to enable my own IDM system for my own domain can be done via Self-Service, so I don't need to wait for someone approving this.


* As SCS Customer, I want to use the identities that I created and manage in one SCS cloud to control access to projects (in a domain that I own) on another SCS cloud, possibly with some mapping, so I don't need to do IDM multiple times when using multiple SCS clouds. [Goal 2]
  * Daisy-chaining SCS-domains across different SCS-deployments operated by differrent CSPs


* As SCS Customer I want to be sure that the separation of users, projects and domains is secure even in a federated scenario, so I can run workloads with sensitive data on such clouds. (In extension, I may want this security to be certified according to some security standard, e.g. BSI C5.)
* As a SCS Operator I want to restrict the customer/tenant admin from Elevation of Privilege (leaving the scope of their domain), e.g. by ceating new admin account outside of his scope
* As a SCS Customer I want to have confidentiality and integrity of the resources I have configured in my domain
* As a SCS Customer I don't want Customers to see my presence in the SCS deployment (e.g. in login or federation dialogs). I also don't want this info to trivially leak (e.g. by automated endpoint URL guessing).


* As SCS Customer, I want to login and the system will authenticate me without me entering an IdP name/URL/... so I don't need to remember anything beyond my username and password (and potentially a second factor if I opt for MFA). (This could be achieved by usernames that include the domain/realm or brokers asking around ....)
* As SCS Customer I would like to have the ability to have more than one external IdP connected to my domain.
* As a SCS Customer I want the SCS authN&authZ components to be reasonably "deterministic" with regards to account naming collisions (e.g. using namespacing)


* As a SCS customer, I want to be able to orchestrate kubernetes clusters on more than one SCS Operator's cloud with the same set of credentials in order to achieve next level multi-cloud.


* As a DevOps-Team (SCS Customer) I want to use my SSI in order to spawn kubernetes clusters on a set of SCS clouds. [Goal 4]
* As SCS project, I want to be sure we can (at least) connect to the Gaia-X IDM world (i.e. SSI/DID style IDM), so we deliver on our "infrastructure for Gaia-X" promise. [Goal 4]


* [Out of Scope: As a DevOps-Team person (SCS Customer) and "holder of an SSI identity" I want to be able to use SCS serivces (e.g. the status page application). I.e. SCS shall be able to consume SSI. [Goal 4] ]


* As Customer, I want to access both Web-UI and API/CLI with my federated identity.
* As DevOps Team (SCS Customer) I want to use terraform (example for Infra-as-Code tooling) across SCS clouds (i.e. with a federated account provided in some external IAM (AzureAD/ADFS/freeIPA/whatever)


* As a SCS Operator I want to be able to provision a new domain for a new customer/tenant across the relevant services without interrupting services for other customers/tenants [keystone]
  * Probably solved when we delegate Auth from Keystone to an Idenity broker that holds all domains ("realms" in Keycloak lingo)


* As a SCS Operator I want to deliver scalable authentication performance and know how performance scales when customers get added. [keycloak issue]
* As a SCS Operator I want to know how performance scales when customers create a lot of custom roles and policies (e.g. to avoid DoS attacks). [keystone]


* As SCS developer (architect), I want to understand the options of real(TM) ID Brokers that would indeed not just redirect requests but actually proxy for other IdP systems in the auth workflow (as depicted by Jeff), so we may resolve the challenge of API/CLI access and avoid exposing the IdP.
* As a SCS architect, I need to have a clear understanding of the functionality the IdP Broker needs to fullfill in order to be fullfill the needs of the container layer. [Goal 3]


* As a SCS Customer I want to be able federate out to two seprated external IAM sources: 1. for DevOps accounts, 2. Enduser accounts
