# 2022-11-17
## Participants  use of github handle is preferred
* @matfechner
* @ppkuschy
* @JuanPTM
* @lossack
* @o-otte
* @fkr
* @jnull
* @reqa
* @joshmue
* @master-caster

## Recurring items
* Who is presenting in weekly community call and transforming etherpad to minutes in GitHub?
   * @fkr
* Anything else to add to the agenda?
  * Reminder: Audit-Logging Session on monday 11:00 CET

* Housekeeping from last meeting

## Agenda

### Status Page Application

* https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/status-page-api/tree/develop
* https://github.com/joshmue/scs-status-page-web

* Demo by @joshmue of the current state

* Check with Dag? @fkr will do that

* Maybe some backlog grooming with @o-otte and @joshmue


### IAM status of work

* SIG IAM last Friday: https://input.osb-alliance.de/p/2022-scs-sig-iam
  * Assessment of options how to make keystone reconfiguration work seemlessly when adding new customer domains/realms: Option 1. With Apache: adjustment of mod_openidc config (i.e. create upstream patch). Option 2. With Apache: staged restarts of Keystone containers (K8S+ISTIO may help here). Option 3. Switch to Zitadel instead of Keycloak.

* For Federation experiments: Testbed adjustment to have RFC compliant SSL cert that is accepted by Keycloak. Testbed got redeployed, pending to come back online.

### Keycloak and k8s in the management plane?

* https://github.com/osism/release/pull/621
  - keycloak integrated into OSISM in order to make federation possible (also in context of Gaia-X)
  - was meant to be a temporary solution ... OSISM not skilled to maintain keycloak
  - who maintains it? tender lot 8 winner?
  - how to deploy it?
  - what is the place for the IAM service / IAM broker in our architecture?
* Do we need a generic mechanism to add containers to the OSISM deployment?
   - plugin mechanism for playbooks and containers?
      - exists - requires custom ansible playbooks currently and then deploying additional containers into docker/docker-compose
- Future roadmap from OSISM: Provide a k8s cluster in the management plane, so operator can automate the deployment of extra services (e.g. for Ops tooling or for IAM)
  - using minikube / k3s / ... for the OSISM management cluster (~3 hosts)
        - even an external k8s cluster could be used

### Meeting on 1st of December

We have to move this due to constraints

* moved to 1300 CET on Dec 1st, @fkr to adjust calendar

