# 2022-12-15
## Participants  use of github handle is preferred
* @o-otte
* @matfechner
* @berendt
* @fkr
* @garloff
* @joshmue
* @reqa21
* @master-caster
* @frosty-geek
## Recurring items
* Who is presenting in weekly community call and transforming etherpad to minutes in GitHub?
  * @joshmue
* Anything else to add to the agenda?
  * gx-scs
* Housekeeping from last meeting
## Agenda
### Heads-Up
- Next week no OPS & IAM Meeting (CW51) - this is the last meeting for this year.
### "gx-scs" plusserver environment
* Was rebuilt, first people got access.
* Self-service portal envisioned (create/delete/modify projects & users) for the future (via the default PS Customer Experience).
* Who to contact in case of problem?
  * in the future via self-service
  * for now default via @frosty-geek or other well-knowns from the team
### CloudMon next steps
* When to do the recurring hacking session?
* Whom to schedule with
  * @master-caster
  * @fkr
  * @garloff
* @frosty-geek will provide second project
### StatusPage
* Refinement and further storywriting needed?
  * @fkr will contact @o-otte and @joshmue in order to get that straightened out
* taking the status page arch diagrams as examples, where and how to track them in order for them to be part of the SCS information architecture
* ADR needed for the pure decision making (topic: Build new or use existing)
  * https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/169
  * https://github.com/master-caster/Docs/blob/main/Decisions/scs-0011-v1-status-page-create-decision.md
* ADR needed for the API of the status page
  * https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/237
