# 2023-08-15

## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* @o-otte
* @fdobrovolny
* @artificial-intelligence
* @chess-knight
* @joshmue
* @mxmxchere

## Who is reporting in community call next week and transfering minutes
* @o-otte 

## Agenda

### Current efforts regarding the MVP
* @joshmue reporting
    * Overview about the epic [#364](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/364)
        * First issue to work on is #373 on how to log in to the API Server
        * Uses Keycloak to authenticate, showed how authentication token look like
        * Showed the process of using kubectl exec plugin login flow
    * First approach is to do tenant separation by namespaces
        * use of Crossplane for this
        * but crossplane use cluster scoped resources
            * Crossplane is more built for plattform engineering, less for our usecase.

### Repo
* There is no repo yet, but if there is actual code, it will be in the SCS Org.

### Open Discussion Round
* Alternatives to Crossplane?
    * Not known by @joshmue
    * OpenStack support quite new in Crossplane
    * @joshmue also checked out [kamaji](https://github.com/clastix/kamaji)
        * Tool to create crontrol planes on demand
        * Need more compute units
    * Idea of abstracting away cloud resources as an SCS standard
        * Would be an ultimate goal, but difficult to achieve.
* What would be the goal
    * A user can login to a cloud UI, delegate the acces to kubectl and to manage resources from there declarativly. Those include OpenStack resources, IAM, and Kubernetes clusters
* Important topic: how to order Kubernetes Clusters
    * Current situation is complicated. A lot of manual steps are involved.
    * Central API coud help to solve this
    * Could help to install CAPI controller onto central API service to support CAPI created Clusters
        * Next step would be support clusters created by e.g. Gardener
    * Idea to use an abstracted [Kubernetes Cluster Resource type](https://github.com/23technologies/scs-cluster-crd), to abstract away CAPI, Gardener, etc. approaches
    * Should talk to SysEleven to avoid working on the same topic twice with respect to Kubernetes
