# 2024-02-13

## Participants - use of github handle is preferred

- @o-otte
- @mxmxchere
- @bitkeks
- @janiskemper
- @joshmue
- @jschoone
- @DEiselt

## Who is reporting in community call next week and transfering minutes

- @o-otte

## Agenda

### Draft for reasoning and concept (@joshmue)

- See PR https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/central-api/pull/4
    - Integration of cluster-stacks - how?
        - Crossplane Integration?
        - Provider provides default cluster classes
            - Customer can also provide custom cluster classes
        - Users can overwrite cluster class variables, if the class enables this
    - @joshmue started to create diagrams

### General discussion around Central API and SCS CSP interoperability

- What will be provided by CSPs regarding ClusterClasses?
    - Should the CSP be able to "pin" values? Enforce e.g. the target k8s API?
    - When CSPs provide ClusterClasses, variables can be defined and evaluated (constrained)
    - In the end, the credentials in the Secret decide, what CSP infrastructure is used
    - CSPs should aim to offer good ClusterStacks and not stick their nose in Cluster Stacks mgmt clusters
- Persona-based evaluation - what do we talk about when we say "CSP"?
    1. Infrastructure provider, IaaS layer - provides Central API IaaS endpoint
    2. Kubernetes (control plane) provider, KaaS layer - provides Central API in Kubernetes
    3. End-user, uses Kubernetes Cluster (without needing to administer the k8s control plane an tooling)
- Central API meant to be 1:n, one instance provided by 1 CSP to n customers
- Differentiate between "Cluster Stacks mgmt clusters" and "k8s control planes"
    - Use case "Put control planes into containers instead of VMs" -> evaluate deployments (kamaji, k0smotron, ...)
- Proposal: move (opinionated) discussion around use cases into ADRs
    - Write down list of use cases and personas, discuss -> AI: @mxmxchere, @bitkeks, @joshmue
    - The discussion from the meeting will be used as a kickoff point to draft ADRs: use cases, CSPs for infra vs. container, constraints

### What's ready for R6? (@bitkeks)

- Implementation of Cluster Stacks (ClusterClass) is ready and is part of Central API
- Crossplane?
- Moved into Ops call on Thursday
