# 2023-03-15
## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* @matfechner
* @JuanPTM
* @fkr
* @garloff
* @jschoone
* @reqa
* @joshmue
* @o-otte

## Recurring items
* Who is presenting in weekly community call and transforming etherpad to minutes in GitHub?
	@juanPTM
    
* Anything else to add to the agenda?

## Agenda

### Sprint Review & Planning

#### Use Authorization Code flow with PKCE in Keycloak OIDC federation

* https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/293

#### CLI Federation

* https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/191
    * discussion of backport to Zed is underway
     
#### Finalize ADR Requirements IdP

* https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pull/205
    * pending comments

#### Zitadel outcomes?

* https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/260
* Custom Claims currently not released

### Release Notes R4

* What shall we add for IAM?
    * https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/release-notes/pull/5

### Next steps for IAM?

* How to manage identities? Is identity management needed?
    * API first approach?
    * Backing store? LDAP?
* @joshmue and @reqa came up with a proposal howto provide pods with a way of authorization via oidc against an IdP to access services on the IaaS layer

#### Areas of work:

* Users federated to keystone (via OIDC) can access all services managed by OpenStack, but we don't have a link to the Container clusters yet
* User management: We don't have the clear "domain admin role" defined and implmeneted yet -- once we have it, we would like the domain admin to create users and authorize them to access projects inside the OpenStack domain and k8s clusters
* (Some local shadow user workarounds currently needed with Zitadel may need to be overcome.)
* K8s identities: We have two layers:
    1. Cluster management (create, scale out, delete clusters) - connection to underlaying IaaS needed
    2. Identities within the k8s cluster - connection to underlaying IaaS is optional (current state: we just hand out admin to the customer, likely not the desired final state, customers would want to use IdP to also authenticate k8s cluster access)

* Workload identities ... trust k8s clusters to issue tokens that allow access to IaaS resources (within the same project)

