# 2023-03-29
## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* @matfechner
* @itrich
* @o-otte
* @joshmue
* @JuanPTM
* @reqa


## Recurring items
* Who is presenting in weekly community call and transforming etherpad to minutes in GitHub?
    * @joshmue
* Anything else to add to the agenda?

## Agenda

### Anything to report from PTG so far?

* Keystone meeting focused on a retro of last year
* Second half was focusing on current known bugs.
* Keystone core team is very small (5 – 6 devs) and thus has low bandwith to maintain the project
* Feature requests of SCS couldn't be raised due to the low bandwith of the core team. We weren't able to bring up the OIDC feature request yesterday, try again today.
* @matfechner won't be able to participate today's PTG meeting. @JuanPTM and @reqa will cover this. (Update: today was only one hour meeting. There are weekly "Reviewathons" on Fridays 1400UTC)
* Horizon sessions was very empty (only 2 people). Apparently low interest in Horizion.

### IAM Mini-Hackathon Bremen

https://input.scs.community/2023-scs-iam-minihackathon

* Will take place as planned
* Arriving by train is currently somewhat hard due to a bridge construction site, see e.g.[this](https://www.ndr.de/nachrichten/niedersachsen/oldenburg_ostfriesland/Bahn-Zugausfaelle-in-Bremen-und-Oldenburg-wegen-Bauarbeiten,bahnverkehr242.html). Please check DB information and plan enough time. Also in Bremen the tram line 6 from main station to univention (direction University) is [redirected](https://www.bsag.de/aktuelles/aktuelle-meldungen/news/wann-faehrt-die-linie-6-wieder-zur-uni.html?tx_news_pi1%5Bcontroller%5D=News&tx_news_pi1%5Baction%5D=detail&cHash=555d43fac1100d5c977e4cd4ffeb7095). That's inconvenient.
* No agenda yet, but @fkr will probably have some ideas. Fix an agenda as soon as possible.
* @reqa has some ideas he wants to discuss during the Hackathon and will capture them in the corresponding pad (see below)
* @reqa raises the consideration that this event should be considered a workshop rather than a "Hackathon".
* Consider possibility to participate remotely (espacially regarding @JuanPTM)

### AOB (Any Other Businesses)

* @JuanPTM made progress with the ZITADEL test environment. Official documentation lacks of the important information e.g. on the topic of "actions".
* @reqa wants to work on ZITADEL and OpenStack CLI, but ZITADEL currently lacks on OIDC Device Authorization. According to Zitadel, we could currently avoid this by generating a PAT (Personal Access Token). @reqa is not optimistic that this will work, but they will try. Maybe it works now with the custom claim in place.

### Last week's hacking sessions (SIG IAM)

* Topic was the on-boarding page of Wavestack/Wavecon.
* ZITADEL was perceived as a tool for developers which need to know exactly how to use it.
* **@reqa wants to discuss the vision of SCS regarding IAM.**
    * ZITADEL is currently not in the scope of the Keystone core developers
    * Should we raise this and bring ZITADEL to the table?
    * Does Keystone lack basic features like e.g. interpreting nested JSON? Where do we maintain the configuration requirements? In the scope of Keystone, in the scope of SCS, in the scope of kolla-ansible?
    * We at least would need to add this information to the documentation (or alternatively deploy automatically all needed configuration)
* Redeploy the testbed with a newer Ubuntu (there was a hint that the `mod_oidc` doesn't work)

* Clearer understanding of interactions of components wanted: Horizon, `mod_auth_openidc`, Keystone, IdP: How is the `id_token` really obtained, now that we switched to `response_type="code"` (i.e. to standard Authorization Code Grant)? Some network traces of this backchannel operation betweeen the module and Keycloak/Zitadel would be good, so we really know what that module is doing. Documentation is sparse, would be good to confirm. Raised interest because Keystone PTG was dealing with an extension for Keystone Middleware to query the Userinfo endpoint.
