# 2023-02-22
## Participants - use of github handle is preferred

* @itrich
* @garloff
* @matfechner
* @reqa
* @JuanPTM
* @o-otte
* @joshmue
* @jschoone

## Recurring items
* Who is presenting in weekly community call and transforming etherpad to minutes in GitHub?
	* @reqa
* Anything else to add to the agenda?


## Agenda

* Discuss K8S requirements https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/194 with Jan/Container Team Input

	* Not enough information on the requirements.
	* Adoption of this use-case (federating IdP to container layeer) is quite low.
	* Hyperscaler persepctive: Identities from the cloud, can be used in k8s clusters from RBAC
		- https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/blob/master/docs/keystone-auth/using-keystone-webhook-authenticator-and-authorizer.md#k8s-keystone-auth
		- Authorization decisions in k8s RBAC (not cloud layer)
		- Is useful
	* ToDo:
		- Study hyperscaler
		- Study rancher
	* Current situation with our cluster-api reference implementation with self-service
		* User needs access to the cloud environment (on IaaS layer)
		*  User receives the kubeconfig with full admin control access to the cluster
	* Current situation with our cluster-api reference implementation as managed service
		* Operator creates ressources on IaaS layer
		* User receives the kubeconfig with full admin control access to the cluster
	* Hyperscaler typically obfuscate the management plane of a k8s cluster and customers aren't able to control the management plane (via k8s API).
	* k8s is very agnostic regarding the underlying authorization service. User validation can be implemented with any arbitrary solution (validation server).
	
* Workload identities?
	* Machines (containers/pods/VMs) have identities, access rules can be applied to them
		- Avoid the need to have static tokens/secrets for authorization
		- Machines are identified by the underlying platform (which invokes a dynamic token)
		- Like service accounts in k8s (mounted into the containers)
	* Lifecycle of these dynamic tokens:
		- k8s does it itself (for the service accounts)
		- renewal implementation is WIP
	* This is rather not a topic for IdP federation in general as workload identities are managed by k8s itself
	* Hyperscaler approach:
		- Google: https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/workload-identity
		- Azure: https://azure.github.io/azure-workload-identity/docs/concepts.html
	* AI: Create some drawing to visualize the idea of federated workload identities

* R4 (ETA 2022-03-22) Things to consider?
	* What have we finalized, what can we still finalize, what will come next after R4?
	* Highlights for the release notes:
		- Conceptual ADR on IdP requirements: Decoupling from specific ID provider (like keycloak)
		- Documenting vision and architecture (IaaS and (new:) KaaS)
		- Device auth grant workflow in OpenStack (PR upstream)
			* most likely not implemented in R4 (unless merged upstream in the next ~10 days and backported/cherry-picked by OSISM)
		- Domain admin role needed in OpenStack (-> R5/R6)
			* We'll need to help with blueprints and implementation
			* Self-service workarounds are in place all over the CSPs (own APIs, policies)
			* OTC has something like this

