# 2024-03-13
## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
- @josephineSei
- @markus-hentsch
- @garloff
- @berendt
- @90n20
- @JuanPTM
- @reqa
- @o-otte
- @cah-patrickthiem
- @bitkeks

## Recurring items & housekeeping
- Transfer to minutes repo and community call reporting: @JuanPTM

## Agenda

### Upcoming R6
* Highlights from this team (might make it into the press release)
    * See also our [R6 outcomes blog post](https://scs.community/2023/12/29/scs-r6-enables/) (how do features contribute to the wanted outcomes?)
* Release notes ([PR#16](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/release-notes/pull/16))
    * Highlights
    * Directions
    * Limitations & Issues
    * Deprecations
    * Upgrade Notes
* Original plan: https://input.scs.community/2023-scs-team-iam#High-Level-R6-goals
* IAM: @reqa, @JuanPTM
    * Federation
    * keycloak -> k3s
    * Upstream work
* Sec: @bitkeks, @90n20
    * Pentesting happened by experts (without serious fallout)
    * Automation is being worked on
    * Link advisories, blog articles on sec
* Role work: @josephineSei, @markus-hentsch
    * Upstream alignment
        * domain listing fix -> merged upstream (but not in R6)
    * domain-manager -> aligned upstream manager role with domain scope
        * vision being implemented :-)


### Sec/Pentesting (@bitkeks, @90n20)
* Highlights & Release Notes (see above)
    * Achievements thus far: Security assessments in IaaS ref impl, external/internal/client
        * What actions were taken?
    * Future directions: automated security scanning pipeline
    * Security advisories for SCS related issues, pick up blog articles
    * Any secustack results? -> WIP
* Automated security testing now in SCS zuul repo (branch) (https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/security-infra-scan-pipeline)
    * ZAP Containers only allow to scan one target at a time. Working on [Automation Framework](https://www.zaproxy.org/docs/automate/automation-framework/) as a possible solution.
    * Greenbone - need full deployment of Greenbone container architecture, talk to it via gvmd daemon ([python-gvm library](https://greenbone.github.io/python-gvm/))


### IAM
* Highlights & Release Notes (see above)
* How far have we come in our vision?
    * "Virtual Hyperscaler" - https://docs.scs.community/standards
        * Same standards (APIs, Behavior, Transparency)
        * Network connections
        * User federation
            * One SCS Cloud as IdP for all others
            * External IdP (AD, ...)
            * Self-service (inside own domain)
            * (Opt-in) Users shared across layers (IaaS/KaaS, potentially SaaS)
    * What's left for R7?
        * Use cases and testcases
            * Onboarding of new customer
                * Role assignment, project creation, ...
                * Certificate import on federation creation
        * Documentation
    * Upstream dependencies?
* Patch https://review.opendev.org/c/openstack/keystone/+/907121 - custom roles for federated users
    * Example: Allowing to delegate management capabilities (even before a domain-scoped manager role becomes implemented by all SCS operators)

#### Keystone token provider (@markus-hentsch)

- (discussion proposal, no issue yet)
- **Fernet** vs. **JWS**, https://docs.openstack.org/keystone/latest//admin/tokens-overview.html#token-providers
    - **JWS** = only signed not encrypted, requires no key replication in Keystone
        - each Keystone server has individual signing key pair, rotated individually
    - **Fernet** = encrypted, persistent and the decyption keys are replicated between Keystone instances
        - all Keystone servers share the key repository, key rotation has to be done in sync; secondary and staged keys ensure transition timeframe
- each backend has different deployment and lifecycle procedures (changing token provider is more than just changing config options!)

Disadvantages of Fernet:

- Fernet *spec* largely abandoned, not recognized by a standards body = no close auditing like with IETF standards, fixing CVEs is up to the OpenStack community ([source](https://specs.openstack.org/openstack/keystone-specs/specs/keystone/stein/json-web-tokens.html#problem-description))
    - clarification: Fernet crypto implementation is part of [python-cryptography](https://cryptography.io/en/latest/fernet/) and better maintained than the Fernet *spec*; e.g. spec is stuck at AES-128, meaning that the implementation is limited to it
    - Implementation: https://cryptography.io/en/latest/fernet/#implementation
    - Spec: https://github.com/fernet/spec/blob/master/Spec.md

- if multiple Keystones nodes: symmetric keys need to physically leave a Keystone node during rotation for distribution (with JWS: private keys stay on nodes, only public keys are distributed)

The [docs say](https://docs.openstack.org/keystone/latest/admin/tokens-overview.html#jws-tokens):

> "A deployment might consider using JWS tokens as opposed to fernet tokens if there are security concerns about sharing symmetric encryption keys across hosts. Note that a major difference between the two providers is that JWS tokens are not opaque and can be decoded by anyone with the token ID. Fernet tokens are opaque in that the token ID is ciphertext."


In short:
- Fernet is widely used default
- JWS is the most recent addition, more widely adopted in other frameworks
    - e.g. Ceph can also use JWS for S3
- SCS does not make any recommendation or guideline yet

Quote from today's IaaS call:

> - Something to have in mind in hinsight of R7?
>     - in the course of R7 cycle switch default to JWS?
>     - needs proper testing (as this is not the current default)
>     - @horazont warns about long-running tasks that use tokens in regards to upgrade scenarios - in which (due to switching from fernet to JWS) the tokens would be invalidated

Questions:

- Q: how are tokens handled in federated setups?
    - Markus: I've seen "unscoped token" being mentioned
    - Does the symmetric key break federation?
        - no -- as we don't do keystone2keystone but establish trust and authenticate via oidc to keycloak
- Q: do we feel the need to make any recommendations?
    - Yes: Stick to defaults for now
- IAM related:
    - Are we pushing upstream to switch? Will we switch if we deem it more future-proof?
        - We should follow upstream consent here (but obviously we can lobby there for what we consider best)
    - Why not use OAuth everywhere instead of switching the token type?
    - Migration path, API downtimes when switching is activated 

