# 2024-08-14

## Participants

- @gtema
- @markus-hentsch
- @garloff
- @o-otte
- @JuanPTM
- @bitkeks
- @90n20

## Housekeeping

* Minutes taking & transfer: @gtema
* Reporting in Comm Call: @garloff

## Agenda

### Security team: Wrap up of works in scanners and pipelines (@bitkeks)
* Since we are nearing the R7 release date, all the things available for testing and deployment should be finalized - this also concerns the security tooling
* Meeting today to coordinate dates and artifacts
    * Question on Zuul pipelines is yet to be resolved. But deliverable is a good blueprint for other infrastructure tools (other CI/CD pipelines)
    * CronJob for Trivy uploads is WIP, tbd today, part of deliverables

### DefectDojo in SCS Kubernetes (@gtema)
* Move from old [instance](http://213.131.230.166:8080/login?next=/) to ...
* new dedicated instance: https://defectdojo.infra.sovereignit.cloud/dashboard
* Login via Keycloak, with Github account
    * No support of getting groups and roles from DejectDojo via keycloak :-(
    * Groups in DD need to be configured after first login

### SCS Keycloaks (@gtema)
* UCS Keycloak manages Nextcloud and Harbor
* SCS Keycloak allows login to Zuul and DefectDojo (and others..?)
* Connect UCS to it? -> AI @gtema @garloff

### IAM
* Notes from meeting with @reqa
    * https://input.scs.community/rGfAlCvSS-WYHB3bjY8ggA?both#
    * Keycloak in the big picture. As we discussed 3 weeks ago

### keycloak as ID-Broker
* Limitations of keycloak
    * Using federated external IdPs such as github
        * Getting access to keycloak can not be limited to users belonging to a certain group (or with another specific attribute)
        * Automated account provisioning
        * Consequence: Can not federate with IdPs outside full control
        * AI @JuanPTM: Research on keycloak (ID-Brokering)
            * Do we need filtering at ID Broker?
            * Or should the final service (SP) do it all?
    * Will always be able to get unscoped tokens also from keystone?
        * Without any roles ..., so maybe harmless
* Filtering in mod_auth_oidc?
* First login to keycloak required for granting access ...
* To Do: Describe workflows
    * Customer signup
        * keycloak realm
            * admin access to realm
            * optionally connect external IdP
        * openstack domain
            * domain manager role
    * Customer self-service 
        * Add users, add groups, assign users to groups
        * Enable access (roles) to projects

=> Another design workshop needed
- Fri Aug 30, 11--13 and 14--15:30 CEST.
- Prep: @garloff, @gtema, @juanptm


### EOF slot for IAM/Sec (@garloff)
* Registration open at https://events.scs.community/eof/
* Team has a 20-minute slot to present all results in SCS
* Who will participate, who can present?
    * IAM: ??
    * Security: Dominik (since collegues from Spain will not come)
* Topics:
    * Domain-Manager concept and implementation
    * Identity federation
        * OpenStack part
            * Device grant auth flow
                * long-lived tokens (or short-lived access token and renewal token) vs. app creds
                * same challenge with requiring 2FA for API access
                * Usability depends on whether or not something *interactive* is required frequently to reauthorize (like daily reestablishing trust or hourly entering 2nd factor)
            * Domain configuration for external drivers
        * IdP part
    * Sec-Assessment for RI
        * findings and improvements for upstream
        * best practices, hardening checks
    * Security vulnerability knowledge
        * Blog posts, evaluation of new CVEs in regards to SCS components
    * Security tooling
        * Concepts, evaluations
        * Scanner pipelines (Zuul) for IaaS and KaaS
        * Trivy Operator for Kubernetes clusters

