# 2024-09-25

## Participants

- @markus-hentsch
- @josephineSei
- @90n20
- @JuanPTM
- @garloff
- @gtema
- 
## Housekeeping
* Minutes taking & transfer: @gtema
* Reporting in Comm Call: @JuanPTM

## Agenda

### Security
* Object Storage for uploading security logs will be adjusted (based on feedback @gtema), PR to be submitted later today by @specterj

### Federation
* Continuation of IAM [requirements doc](./scs-federation.md#) discussion
    * Focus on requirements first before diving into implementation details

