# 2024-01-17
## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* @o-otte
* @reqa
* @JuanPTM
* @joshmue
* @bitkeks
* @berendt
* @garloff (traveling)
* @90n20

## Recurring items & housekeeping
* Minutes transfer and community call reporting: @reqa
* No community call this Thursday

## Agenda

### Release engineering R6
* R6 release on 2024-03-20
* First R6 release candidates in early Feb (exact date TBD)
    * Getting all major features in and working before first RC
    * Our CSP partners start with deployments into their dev/test environments and start testing
    * Bug fixes, documentation, ... can still be merged (always focus on NOT invalidating testing that has already been done)
    * Please speak up if you need an exception, so we schedule testing for your particular item after your late feature
* No SIG release; product board (mondays) will monitor release progress
* Please keep tests, documentation, release notes updated as features are being developed!

### Security (Pentesting)
* New Matrix room for security-related content: "SCS | Security" (no sensitive infos please, **public** chat room) -> for sensitive input, use security@
* Low privileged user assessment [#494](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/494). Document auditing tools results (linPEAS, lynis and OpenSCAP) on both testbed manager and nodes. Add remediation suggestions.
* Move to high privileged user assessment.
* Document Pentesting methodology. We are including possible Zuul playbooks to automate the tests into the CI/CD pipeline. Meeting about this next week (cw 4)
* No response about OpenSearch vuln from maintainers. We have tested the lastest version (2.11.1) and the problem still persists. E-mail forwarded past week.

### Roles
* TBD

### Keycloak deployment
* Keycloak on k3s [#507](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/507)
    * Assigned static IP (192.168.16.100) via metallb LoadBalancer service to Keycloak
    * TLS not yet working
* Image building
    * Two pipeline definitions still missing in zuul, using github tooling for now

### Keycloak IAM for k8s
* "It works" for @joshmue -- need to document this
    * See [#373](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/373) - should be enough documentation for manual setup
    * For clusterstack it would probably make sense to automate this

### Keystone
* Federated users in non-default domains [#405](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/405)
    * Ongoing conversations and tests
    * Two patches needed, expect that this will work
    * Custom roles not supported, will need more work
* Cleura/Artem(@gtema) mentioned that they are interested in the following two issues:
    * Extend the mapping capabilities to allow the IdP to supply a JSON valued claim `projects_json` which defines all of the projects and the specific roles that an ephemeral user shall receive (https://review.opendev.org/c/openstack/keystone/+/742235)
    * possibility to get roles dynamically with the assertion from keystone directly

### Keycloak Container
* Creation and push of Keycloak image [#509](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/509)
    * [Merge Request](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/container-images/pull/3)
    * Use Github Workflows instead of Zuul
    * Decision: Name of the image Keycloak vs scs-keycloak 
    * Secrets to be added to Github repo

