# 2024-02-28
## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
- @o-otte
- @garloff
- @berendt
- @90n20
- @JuanPTM

## Recurring items & housekeeping
- Transfer to minutes repo and community call reporting: @garloff

## Agenda

### Sec/Pentesting

- ProjectDiscovery tools on the pipeline are working (naabu + httpx + nuclei).
    - Faced some problems deploying/running containers on the worker and getting their results. As ansible does not natively support infinite loops or loops without any delay, we got blocked trying to identify when tools have finished their scans. The workaround we found was to set a high "retries" value with a minimal "delay" while checking for containers state.
        - Option: Use Ansible shell module and check script output / status as done for sonobuoy: https://github.com/regiocloud/e2e-tests/blob/main/playbooks/gardener/run.yml
    - Average time on a simple scan against a test domain takes around 10-15 minutes.
    - Moving on getting ZAP and Greenbone scanners ready on the pipeline.
    - Testing Zuul instance hosted on http://213.131.230.176:9000.
- Internal VM assesments uploaded to nextcloud, minor findings.
- Security Advisories have been summarized and uploaded to nextcloud.
- https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/security-infra-scan-pipeline/ 

### IAM
- TBD

#### Keycloak deployment on k3s
- High Priority for R6: Two issues with fresh rollout on k3s (issue 507)
    - Keycloak doesn't have the CA certificate in its keystore. That's required e.g. for logout.
        - We used to inject that with `docker exec -u root` and using java `keytool` store mgmt tools but root is not possible with kubectl.
            - https://github.com/osism/ansible-playbooks/blob/main/playbooks/infrastructure/keycloak-oidc-client-config.yml#L281-L291
            - Need to create a container that can do this without being root
        - Browsing codecentric Helm chart issues indicates that we may need to use some `extraInitContainers` or similar: https://github.com/codecentric/helm-charts/issues/99
- Flakyness - under observation:
    - Keycloak pod complained that it didn't have `KEYCLOAK_ADMIN` set in ENV. redeploying the pod fixed that but that's not good enough.
        - https://github.com/codecentric/helm-charts/blob/58a318a16a5ed220601da39fcd4e82127c3f911a/charts/keycloakx/examples/postgresql/keycloak-server-values.yaml#L16
        - Not clear why this happened. On full redeployment everything was fine. Under obervation. K8S/helm know-how wanted...
        - Needs reproduction / debugging
- Less important: One issue with limited `make identity` deployment:
    - login fails because octavia role `load-balancer_member` is undefined (only on testbed that only deploys keycloak, keystone, horizon)
    - Maybe just remove that from the Keystone oidc mapping? But then horizon doesn't show anything.
        - Second file for identity-only case? => Issue 1
        - environments/kolla/files/overlays/keystone/federation/oidc/attribute_maps/oidc_attribute_mappingId1.json 
        - Maybe need to disable octavia in horizon for identity-only target => Issue 2
    - Maybe fixed: https://github.com/osism/testbed/commit/10861831cd0afb051cb06016765878c69e97bb1e

#### Keystone (@JuanPTM)
- Contact with Artem regarding putting roles into Keystone token (instead of into the DB)
    - Artem proposed to make a video call
- Arvid learned from Josephine and Artem that
    - Keystone Tokens are either unscoped (e.g. what you get from federation login) or they address exactly one single scope. The scope depends on what the client asks for.
        - Client tooling needs to take care of it, knows how to request the right scoped tokens already
        - Trouble may come up if the roles are in the token, as we ask for new tokens all the time
            - either then get a long list of roles included in the unscoped token from the login and send those to keystone when asking for domain or project scoped tokens just to get a subset back
            - or cache(!) the roles on keystone (ephemeral user) upon login, so they can be handed out to user when she asks for domain/project scoped tokens. Nut cache coherency may be a challenge? Maybe just live with eventual consistency, expiring the cache after 24 hours (when the token expired anyway) and upon explicit logout and document that you need to logout and relogin again after roles changes?

#### Roles
- TBD
