# 2024-01-24

## Participants - use of github handle is preferred
* @JuanPTM
* @bitkeks
* @garloff
* @Seykotron
* @reqa
* @berendt
* @o-otte

## Recurring items & housekeeping
* Minutes transfer and community call reporting: @JuanPTM

## Agenda

### Sec/Pentesting
* Issue [#494](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/494) (Testbed Assesment with Low Privileged users/roles) Updated with the results of the scripts executed over the nodes
* Issue [#521](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/521) (Testbed Assesment with High Privileged users/roles) Created and added the results of the scripts executed over the manager and nodes
* [Draft of Automated Pentest Methodology](https://scs.sovereignit.de/nextcloud/f/332756)  uploaded to the Nextcloud. That draft includes the tools that we propose such as Defect Dojo (its a Vulnerability Manager) and scripts for Zuul to launch that tools.
    * Organize shared Nextcloud folder --> @bitkeks
* We had some trouble updating our testbed. After we did a "clean" and "redeploy" it fails at the end. We are figuring out what's happening there.
    * We had an issue in a new feature, should be fixed now and re-deployment with latest/rolling-tags should be possible again (@berendt)
    * CiaB images are more stable, testbed occasionally breaks as it follows the tip of the development.
* Is the SCS Lab up? And are we allowed to start the pentest process against it?
    * Bare Metal installation currently WIP (by Marc @scoopex), ETA: A few weeks
    * Can be used also to test impact of hardening on workloads. (Workloads hard to do in testbed due to nested virtualization requirement there.)
    * Use as target platform for security test automation
* We identified 114 issues in the Manager and 115 issues in the Nodes, thats why we are consuming a lot of time in issue 494 (and now 521 too). We are reviewing that security issues to filter out false positives and confirm true positives and looking for posible fixing of the issues. We have an excel sheet where we are documenting the process.
    * With or without enabled hardening? Hardening is disabled by default in osism/testbed (@berendt) (and not anywhere elsewhere by default)
        * The test are done without enabling the hardening.
    * existing ansible hardening role will not fix everything (it's not completely up-to-date), but probably quite some
    * Ansible hardening will be superceded by https://github.com/ansible-lockdown/UBUNTU22-CIS in the future (currently we use https://github.com/openstack/ansible-hardening in OSISM)
    * Can a subset of hardening rules be implemented in OSISM by default, without necessarily enabling all of the hardening role? -> Yes, depends on the results of the pentesting 
    * Some weaknesses also may need to be documented and will require extra care in handling (e.g. plaintext passwords in upstream OpenStack)
    * issues are reproducible, so we can easily check whether the hardening helps or not

### Roles

* General role list [#396](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/396). Updates since last week?
    * --> TBD next week
* Domain-Manager role.
    * Upstreaming [#384](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/384)
    * Documentation [#385](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/385).
    * Fix (upstream) exposing domain list [#446](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/446) to other domain-managers.
    

### Identity federation
* Issue [#360](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/360): Roles not cleaned up: Needs fixing or documentation (plus implementation of preprovisioned groups upon project creation)
    * Upstream approach (@gtema - Cleura): Move roles to the keystone tokens/claim (instead of keeping them in the database), very much in line with how groups are handled
    * ToDo (@reqa): Support Cleura (and become a guinea pig for this feature), dicuss with Artem
    * ToDo (@reqa, @JuanPTM): Document limitation
    * Side-discussion: Custom patches are possible, but we normally only accept them if they are backports from upstream
* Support federated users in non-default domains: [#405](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/405)
    * Upstream patch has positive votes, should get merged soon
    * Subsequent issue: Role assignment currently limited to default global roles, patch to enhance this from @JuanPTM is WIP, will be submitted soon.

### keycloak on management/control-plane k3s
* Deployment [#507](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/507)
    * Currently install process: install cloudnative-pg operator, DB creation, helm chart for keycloak
        * Automation via helm charts
            * umbrella chart
            * we may run into limitations with dependency handling of helm
                * but maybe we don't need to because good cloud-native cititzens just reconnect and this way wait for prerequisites to appear
        * Best place for helm charts needs to be determined (@reqa, @berendt, ...) Create helm values.yaml by jinja2?
            * Schedule overflow meeting to discuss (@garloff)
    * PoC worked with TLS termination at Keycloak
    * Description in [#507 note](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/507#issuecomment-1907881989)
* Container build automation [#509](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/509)
    * Merge request, waiting for secret to be added by @garloff
    * @o-otte: "I'm working on Zuul Jobs to build and push container images to Harbor, but had other Zuul topics and projects taking precedence. I will continue on those jobs for the SCS Zuul this week and have them ready next week if everything works out."

### Rename "Team IAM" to "Team IAM and Security" (@garloff)

* Currently, the security-related topics will be on this meeting's agenda
* Overflow/breakouts always possible, maybe security will be moved into the Ops meeting
* It was evaluated to create a new, separate security team meeting, but given the overlap of topics in other team meetings (security in IaaS, Ops, Container and IAM) its best to keep it as is and join specific meetings if needed
