# SIG Documentation on 2023-05–15

## Participants (github handles preferred)

* @maxwolfs
* @joshmue
* @ra-beer
* @aeroflydesign
* @garloff

## Reporting in community call and minutes transfer to repo

* @maxwolfs

## Agenda

### Survey

* first proposal with questions from last session within out nextcloud forms @FriederikeZelke: <https://scs.sovereignit.de/nextcloud/apps/forms/RCFAJ8HyTgs35dGt/submit>
* what should be improved?
  * First Question
    * In which role regarding the SCS Project do you see yourself?
  * How-to-guides (more descriptions and context to get to a specific aim)
  * (quickstart: no explainations, max. 1 line context statement, only copy&paste codeblock)
  * Add freetext field for missing areas of documentation
  * Remove bad links from examples, only link to good documentation
  * change hacking-sessions, peer programming session and office hours to multi-select and add a freetext field for something different
  * change order of last two questions
  * if there is multi-select, explicitly state that it is possible to do so
  * 0-10 rating: describe what is what on the scale
* when should we launch it?
  * next week after summit has happened
    * launch in community call after pentecost
    * close one week later after community call + 1h

### Add context aware prompt to docs-page to improve DX

* [Open PR for markprompt]( https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/docs-page/pull/69)
* still needs gdpr review by @garloff
* 2 discussions
  * gdpr: is it really 100% safe considering personal data?
  * how difficult is it to run it on own infrastructure? (better message about Digital Sovereignty)
* Is an own open-source approach possible within a okayish amount of time?
  * MosaicML, openLLaMA or [privateGPT](https://github.com/imartinez/privateGPT)

### self-testing/self-updating docs – future

* in some documentation there are version-specific commands to copy&paste. it would be good to now have legacy code/commands that don't work. how to keep the documentation updated?
* Automatic Testing
  * Looking at [istio as example](https://github.com/istio/istio.io/blob/master/tests/README.md); they (partly) test their documentation
    * Good First step is to see on which commit the current page was built of; additionally the date when it was last changed
* Updating
  * Renovate can update basically anything - why not docs?

### Add Blog and Community Profiles to docs-page

* still ongoing 😬
* first has to be figured out (again) what the major strategy is with distinction of docs-page and web-page

### Improve Overview for standards

* there is demand: see [this issue](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/docs/issues/29)
* also ongoing proposal [interactive overview issue](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/docs-page/issues/41)
