# SIG Documentation on 2023-06–12

## Participants (github handles preferred)

* @maxwolfs
* @ra-beer
* @alexander-diab

## Reporting in community call and minutes transfer to repo

* @maxwolfs

## Agenda

### Documentation of Standards

* questions arose during last sig standarization regarding docs
* public information on standards are currently about non-existent
* the only place where there is some info is:
  * <https://docs.scs.community/docs>
  * there must be more
* new persons have a lot of qustions about the operational process of standards
* SCS must be more explicit on
  * how standards are defined
  * how they will be made
  * how to work with them
* Further Questions to answer:
  * How does it work with the validity of standards?
  * How do standards between container and infrastructe layer correspond?
    * totally independent?
  * How will validites be defined? What is the process here? How will the transition period be defined?
  * There might be possibility of a changing standard version, but no release of a software level. How to manage?
  * How and where will new standards be released?
  * How does a provider be notified that there are not compatible anymore?
  * Is there a duty by anyone to inform?

### SCS Documentation Survey

* link: <https://osb-alliance.limequery.com/431897>
* has started on last community call
* ends on: this thursday's community call

### Upgrade (Guides)

* targeting releases on software level
* It is currently only stated in the release notes - kinda hidden!
* Would be better to have on a more visible top layer on <https://docs.scs.community/docs>
  * distinction between quickstart and how-to guides necessary
