# SIG Documentation on 2023-04–17

## Participants (github handles preferred)

- @garloff
- @matfechner
- @aeroflydesign
- @ra-beer
- @maxwolfs

## Reporting in community call and minutes transfer to repo

- @maxwolfs

## Agenda

### R5 Outcome: SCS is understandable

- Outcomes from Team IaaS and Team Container from Workshop

- [Ideas and Issues from the Community](https://www.figma.com/file/xmZ7newzY5E5NdxjHQS09S/R5---OUTCOMES?node-id=27-92&t=io3NecpLXVbpie3g-4)
- Focus should be to keep on going on what we have achieved so far
- More and better quickstart guides
- Better connection to teams on what is happening on documentation level
- Difference of devOps (scs contributors) and operators/integrators (certifiable setup) important
- Good example for differentiation is kubernetes documentation
- A survey would be a nice way to connect to community

### Markprompt

- Active on <https://docs-staging.scs.community/>

- GPT-3.5 language model from openAI, trained exclusively with SCS markdown docs, <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/markprompt-data>
- Shows sources of information, yeah!
- Will need some more testing (does it NOT hallucinate?) and GDPR statements ... before it can be launched

### Survey

- Goal: Collect expectations to documentation

- Define roles, allow participants to check which ones match
  - SCS Developer (contributing Code/ADs to the Project)
  - SCS Integrator (offering Consulting/Support on Implementing SCS)
  - SCS Operator (Individuals/Organizations running and providing infrastructure-type services using SCS standards and/or technology)
  - SCS User (DevOps team running workloads on top of Infra provided by SCS Operators) - need different name?
  - SCS Enduser (The users of the workloads operated by SCS Users)
  - Freetext
- Define expertise? Noivce/Intermed/Expert? How long in contact with SCS? -> maybe not for the first survey?
- How easy is it to get started? (0-10 rating)
  - Setup
  - Using
  - Understanding the project
- What kind of documentation should it be? [diataxis](https://diataxis.fr/)
  - Tutorials – for educating people on different topics that are learning-orientated
  - How-To-Guides – for
  - Reference –
  - Explanation with Examples – for
- What areas do need better documentation? (radio selection)
  - Testbed/IaaS/KaaS/Standards/...
  - List areas with link to docu and ask for improvement suggestions
  - Freetext, encouraging links to good and bad examples
- What other desires?
  - Hacking sessions? Live-coding peer programming? Office hours ("Sprechstunden")? ...
- What do you need to feel enabled to contribute to the documentation?

### Extra Feature for Hacking Session

- Create, join talk about hacking sessions

- different kind of hacking sessions
  - "open" hacking sessions - beginner
  - ~~"closed"~~ expert hacking sessions
