# SIG Documentation on 2023-11-13

## Participants

- @maxwolfs
- @fdobrovolny

## Reporting & minutes

- @maxwolfs

## Agenda

### standards more prominent on landing page

- feedback from @mbuechse to put the standards within featured content

### Recap from the hackathon

- was helpful to have stakeholders within the group that use scs in the real world in actual deployments
- we did quite some work to improve the docs
- IDEA: Would be helpful to have regular 2h hacking session regarding the docs with similiar format to the hackathon. read together and create issues in the session and work and review asynchronously.
  - Should be stated what section/docs to read in the inviatation

### 1st Hacking Session: Developers Docs, Contributor Guide and community section

- Most of the people don't code/program on a daily basis, why call them developers? Most of the people are testing configs and contributing. It it actually more DevOps or even better: Contributors
- SCS Contributor could even be more inclusive for persons who don't contribute code but anything else such as standards, configs etc.
- Page should reflect the different layers and working areas
- Should also show which team is responsible for which layer. same with the sigs. show responsibilites and when they meet.
- Probably a good start for a fridays hacking session together with sig community

8th of December – 13:00 – 15:00
Community Call Announcment, Matrix and Newsletter
Add it to the calendar

- Open a PR before for everyone being able to put their comments in it: see example: <https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/docs/pull/114>
- Bring this idea to SIG Community on 20th of November
