# 2024-02-22

## Participants

- @scoopex
- @bitkeks
- @o-otte
- @matofeder
- @snkaupe
- @artificial-intelligence
- @pixelphantomx
- @joshmue

## Recurring items

- Report in the community call will be done by: @o-otte
- Responsible for the minutes is: @bitkeks

## Agenda

### Standards (@bitkeks)

- Are there any PRs to discuss? Any ADRs blocked?

### Zuul

#### Migration and dev instance (@o-otte, @pixelphantomx)

- Are we ready to re-deploy SCS Zuul if migration of machines is needed?
    - Yes we are, still need to merge everything to main
- What about the state of SCS Zuul data persistence?
    - Zookeeper is not backed up yet
    - MySQL is solved by sqldump
    - Will be next topic
- Status on SCS Zuul dev instance
    - Running, but not usable because of (worker) resources -> raise quotas on gx-scs Gonicus -> @o-otte

#### Recurring: Zuul Weather Report (@scoopex)

- See current activities https://input.scs.community/qXSVybD1Tpmdo4WTKTRTlw?both#Current-activities for the latest issues that appeared in the monitoring channel
- Chatops seems to be practiced
- 3 Issues were discussed and assigned (see page referenced above)


### Status Page (@snkaupe)

- Demo of current frontend
    - Loading spinner while data is fetched from API
    - History bars are rendered from live data
    - Table view not yet available
    - List of incidents is displayed
    - Mapping the server-supplied `ImpactType` to the frontend states of "maintenance, fine, limited, broken" currently not possible, as `ImpactType` is a non-finite, user-defined resource
        - Will be investigated by @snkaupe in collab with Status Page API backend dev next week
    - Creating the header bar from "incident in future" WIP
- Status of CORS problem in dev setup?
    - https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/511 seems fixed, DNS NS migration was partly successful -> @jschoone pinged @joshmue

### Central API (@joshmue)

- https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/central-api/pull/4 still open for discussion
- New PR for scope document available?
    - Meeting with @bitkeks, @mxmxchere and @joshmue covered different approaches to Central API and what is connected via crossplane in the backend. For example, should we use Crossplane to also map to Cluster Stacks? Or should all k8s-native APIs be offered directly?
    - No new document yet -> WIP will result in PR#5
- What about Gardener in regards to compatibility behind the Central API?
    - Discuss in SIG Central API on 2024-02-27 (next Tuesday)

### Observability in IaaS and KaaS (@matofeder)

- New docs were merged!
    - [observability repo documnetation](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-observability) has been refactored
    - refactored docs structure has been merged to the new format of OPS docs [#109](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/docs/pull/109)
- Any reliable tests of IaaS observability in RC0/RC1 testbed so far?
    - tests are blocked by [#1855](https://github.com/osism/testbed/pull/1855)
    - After resolving the Thanos sidecar issue, the testbed IaaS layer can be scraped by an observability cluster instance
- KaaS observability experimental, not part of release, aimed for R7
    - KaaS obs. is WIP regarding Thanos receiver component

### Current state of Ops issues

* See current Github Project overview: [SovereignCloudStack/Ops](https://github.com/orgs/SovereignCloudStack/projects/6/views/8?layout=table&groupedBy%5BcolumnId%5D=Status&visibleFields=%5B%22Title%22%2C%22Assignees%22%2C%22Status%22%2C%22Labels%22%2C%22Repository%22%5D)
* Backlog is now completely assigned
* "Refined stories" contains the OVN exporter topic -> What's up with that?
    * @artificial-intelligence has insights about upstream blocks that are relevant for continueing the OVN exporter issues in SCS
