# 2024-06-27

## Participants
- @bitkeks
- @o-otte
- @rhizoet
- @artificial-intelligence
- @snkaupe
- @joshmue
- @gtema
- @matofeder
- @piobig2871
- @pixelphantomx
- @scoopex
- @tsmado

## Recurring items

- Report in the community call will be done by: @matofeder
- Responsible for the minutes is: @bitkeks

## Agenda

### Housekeeping (@bitkeks)

- Any open standards PRs to discuss?
- Ops board
    - [Ops Board for Ops, Status Page and VP12](https://github.com/orgs/SovereignCloudStack/projects/6/views/8?layout=table&groupedBy%5BcolumnId%5D=Status&filterQuery=label%3A%22ops%22%2C%22status-page%22%2C%22SCS-VP12%22+-status%3ADone%2CAbandoned+&visibleFields=%5B%22Title%22%2C%22Assignees%22%2C%22Labels%22%2C%22Repository%22%5D)
    - Check: stale issues, unassigned Doings

### Central API MVP (@joshmue, @bitkeks)

- SIG meeting next week: @bitkeks will be away next Tuesday. What is planned for the SIG meeting? 
- Can we produce a "portable" **MVP** in July?
    - Portable MVP means: there's a repo with documentation, containerized Crossplane app with Central API definitions and a way to deploy this instance. Running the instance and configuring my backends then allows me to send requests for VMs, networks and k8s clusters to Crossplane, which abstracts the backend calls away from the user
    - **MVP date set to Tuesday, July 30th**
- Which CSPs are involved? -> MVP provided to CSPs needs adoption
    - PlusServer
    - OSISM/Regio
    - --> more to come, the easier it is to deploy the feature

### IaaS monitoring - report (@matofeder)
- A blocker: Make use of osism/defaults possible when connection/host is localhost [#1058](https://github.com/osism/issues/issues/1058)
    - It seems that it has been resolved by [#439](https://github.com/osism/ansible-playbooks/pull/439) - it needs to be tested with monitoring play
- Logging/docs
    - Port SCS monitoring features (mainly docs and helm values) to the upstream [#57](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/k8s-observability/issues/57)
        - On review: [#101](https://github.com/dNationCloud/kubernetes-monitoring-stack/pull/101)
    - Upgrade loki helm chart deployment - upstream - merged [#100](https://github.com/dNationCloud/kubernetes-monitoring-stack/pull/100) (minior issue with pipeline)

### KaaS monitoring (@matofeder)
- Request by Malte/B1 to integrate moin.k8s.scs.community cluster into our already deployed monitoring stack: https://monitoring.scs.community
    - Estimate: 1 person day, delegate to Roman/Michal
    - Does this work have to be done for every k8s cluster each time?
    - Special case: setting up monitoring for moin is pre-work for onboarding additional clusters afterwards

### Zuul - node/cadvisor prometheus exporters are down (@matofeder/@o-otte)
- https://monitoring.scs.community/
- On Monday we needed to reinstall the Zuul Node. Forgot to deploy the Prometheus exporters. We (@pixelphantomx or @o-otte) will reinstall them
- What is the status for auto-discovery of endpoints in monitoring?
    - Only enabled for machines inside the observer cluster
    - In case of IP changes the targets would need to be reconfigured in the Prometheus scrape target list
    - Do we want to enable Prometheus auto-discovery for VMs/endpoints outside of the observer cluster? -> new issue to track and discuss (AI @bitkeks)
    - Work on strategic implementations and workflows should be documented and evaluated in a general way, not only in scope of the SCS project (yes, monitoring.scs.community is SCS-centric, but the discussion of auto-discovery in Prometheus should allow CSPs/other admins to set it up themselves)

### Zuul new Deployment strategy (@gtema, @o-otte)
- Redeployment of Zuul necessary for improved reliability
- Which infrastructure to use?
    - Kubernetes vs VMs
        - K8s improves maintenance and scaling
        - VMs might provide some solutions for Docker-based test setups (Red Hat) - needed?
        - Security: working with Vault/OpenBAO might benefit from cluster-based authentication, which is not possible in VMs
        - [Zuul operator](https://opendev.org/zuul/zuul-operator) for k8s exists, but doesn't seem to be ready for production use
        - Artem built kustomize scripts: https://github.com/opentelekomcloud-infra/system-config/tree/main/kubernetes/zuul
    - Infrastructure need to support:
        - separated multi node ZooKeeper (3-5 Instances)
        - offer scalability for other Zuul components like Executor
    - @gtema takes the lead on this
        - @pixelphantomx and @o-otte can and will assist
- General discussion: should we include Zuul into the SCS deployment?


### Status Page and API MVP (@bitkeks)

- Date for MVP set to Thursday, July 18th
- MVP contains deliverable, containerized application with front-end UI and back-end API
- "Planned maintenance" feature after MVP
- We do not support Internet Explorer 11
- Regarding compatibility, the polyfill JS library is distributing malware: https://snyk.io/de/blog/polyfill-supply-chain-attack-js-cdn-assets/
