# 2024-02-29

## Participants

- @bitkeks
- @o-otte
- @snkaupe
- @matofeder
- @artificial-intelligence
- @rhizoet
- @horazont
- @pixelphantomx
- @joshmue
- @berendt

## Recurring items

- Report in the community call will be done by: @bitkeks
- Responsible for the minutes is: @o-otte

## Agenda

### Housekeeping 
#### Standards (@bitkeks)

- Are there any PRs to discuss? Any ADRs blocked?

#### Ops issue board (@bitkeks)

- Let's have a quick look - anything forgotten? Any stale issues?
- [Board](https://github.com/orgs/SovereignCloudStack/projects/6/views/8?layout=table&groupedBy%5BcolumnId%5D=Status&filterQuery=label%3A%22ops%22%2C%22status-page%22+-status%3ADone%2CAbandoned&visibleFields=%5B%22Title%22%2C%22Assignees%22%2C%22Labels%22%2C%22Repository%22%5D)
- Please use Sprint labels for current work. Current sprint is Wellington

### Zuul (@o-otte, @pixelphantomx)

- Problems with quota for dev-zuul fixed?
    - Yes, with a config parameter
    - No quota-related problems anticipated in the future
- gx-scs branch was merged into main this week
    - Documentation will also be updated
    - Duplication of OSISM roles will be finally checked
- Persistence of data?
    - Still WIP
    - Currently work on volumes in ZooKeeper
    - For migration: manual task
- [Zuul weather report: ](https://input.scs.community/qXSVybD1Tpmdo4WTKTRTlw?both#) - everything is forwarded/WIP/resolved

### Status Page (@snkaupe)
- Any news regarding the `ImpactType`?
    - Not yet, @joshuai96 will only return tomorrow. Work on this matter will resume next week.
    - Spend the time instead on the table view as well as bug fixes/small improvements and an incident details page (WIP).

### Central API (@joshmue)

- [Report from Tuesday](https://input.scs.community/2024-scs-sig-central-api?view#2024-02-27)
    - Gardener: How can Gardener Clusters be provisioned through the Central API?
    - Should be transparently handled by Central API, end-user should not need to know about backend of Kubernetes layer
    - Central API abstracts the details of backends, but does not prevent users to also reach the backend APIs
    - Example problem: Gardener or Kamaji do not allow configuration of number of master nodes - how to handle in Central API abstraction? 
    - Defining the correct amount of provided and optional arguments might be difficult. Migrations from one provider to another might be more difficult, if their accepted Central API fields differ too much
    - Proposal: Define a set of mandatory fields ("SCS-compliant") that all providers must provide - use K8s API's capabilities
- Credential handling open for discussion with CSPs
- What's in it for R6?
    - Not yet determined
